plugins/octopus-deploy/README.md, before:

# Octopus Deploy Plugin

Welcome to the octopus-deploy plugin!

## Features

- Display the deployment status of the most recent releases for a project in Octopus Deploy straight from the Backstage catalog

## Getting started

This plugin (currently) uses the Backstage proxy to securely communicate with the Octopus Deploy API.

To use it, you will need to generate an [API Key](https://octopus.com/docs/octopus-rest-api/how-to-create-an-api-key) within Octopus Deploy.

1. Add the following to your app-config.yaml to enable the proxy:

```
// app-config.yaml
proxy:
  '/octopus-deploy':
    target: '<your-octopus-server-url>'
    headers:
      X-Octopus-ApiKey: ${OCTOPUS_API_KEY}
```

2. Add the following to `EntityPage.tsx` to display Octopus Releases

```
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  isOctopusDeployAvailable
  EntityOctopusDeployContent
} from '@backstage/plugin-octopus-deploy';

const cicdContent = (
    <EntitySwitch>
      {/* other components... */}
      <EntitySwitch.Case if={isOctopusDeployAvailable}>
        <EntityOctopusDeployContent defaultLimit={25} />
      </EntitySwitch.Case>
    </EntitySwitch>
)
```

3. Add `octopus.com/project-id` annotation in catalog descriptor file

To obtain a projects ID you will have to query the Octopus API. In the future we'll add support for using a projects slug as well.

```
// catalog-info.yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  # ...
  annotations:
    octopus.com/project-id: Projects-102
spec:
  type: service
```

All set , you will be able to see the plugin in action!

Commit message:

Added support for spaces to Octopus Deploy plugin Added octopus plugin to catalog/EntityPage.tsx and package.json so it is available in default/test implementation in line with other CI/CD plugins

plugins/octopus-deploy/README.md, after:

# Octopus Deploy Plugin

Welcome to the octopus-deploy plugin!

## Features

- Display the deployment status of the most recent releases for a project in Octopus Deploy straight from the Backstage catalog

## Getting started

This plugin (currently) uses the Backstage proxy to securely communicate with the Octopus Deploy API.

To use it, you will need to generate an [API Key](https://octopus.com/docs/octopus-rest-api/how-to-create-an-api-key) within Octopus Deploy.

1. Add the following to your app-config.yaml to enable the proxy:

```
// app-config.yaml
proxy:
  '/octopus-deploy':
    target: '<your-octopus-server-url>'
    headers:
      X-Octopus-ApiKey: ${OCTOPUS_API_KEY}
```

2. Add the following to `EntityPage.tsx` to display Octopus Releases

```
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  isOctopusDeployAvailable
  EntityOctopusDeployContent
} from '@backstage/plugin-octopus-deploy';

const cicdContent = (
    <EntitySwitch>
      {/* other components... */}
      <EntitySwitch.Case if={isOctopusDeployAvailable}>
        <EntityOctopusDeployContent defaultLimit={25} />
      </EntitySwitch.Case>
    </EntitySwitch>
)
```

3. Add `octopus.com/project-id` and optionally an `octopus.com/space-id` annotation in the catalog descriptor file.

To obtain a projects ID you will have to query the Octopus API. You can get the space ID from the projects url in the octopus deploy UI. In the future we'll add support for using a projects slug as well.

```
// catalog-info.yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  # ...
  annotations:
    octopus.com/project-id: Projects-102
spec:
  type: service
```

All set, you will be able to see the plugin in action!
