docs/features/software-templates/index.md, before:

---
id: software-templates-index
title: Backstage Software Templates
sidebar_label: Overview
# prettier-ignore
description: The Software Templates part of Backstage is a tool that can help you create Components inside Backstage
---

The Software Templates part of Backstage is a tool that can help you create
Components inside Backstage. By default, it has the ability to load skeletons of
code, template in some variables, and then publish the template to some
locations like GitHub or GitLab.

<video width="100%" height="100%" controls>
  <source src="https://backstage.io/blog/assets/2020-08-05/feature.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

## Getting Started

> Be sure to have covered
> [Getting Started with Backstage](../../getting-started) before proceeding.

The Software Templates are available under `/create`. For local development you
should be able to reach them at `http://localhost:3000/create`.

Once there, you should see something that looks similar to this:

![Create Image](../../assets/software-templates/create.png)

## Choose a template

When you select a template that you want to create, you'll be taken to the next
page which may or may not look different for each template. Each template can
ask for different input variables, and they are then passed to the templater
internally.

![Enter some variables](../../assets/software-templates/template-picked.png)

After filling in these variables, you'll get some more fields to fill out which
are required for Backstage usage: the owner (which is a `user` in the backstage
system), and the `storePath` which is a destination URL to create for the
provider, for instance `https://github.com/backstage/my-new-repository`, or
`https://gitlab.com/myorg/myrepo`.

![Enter Backstage vars](../../assets/software-templates/template-picked-2.png)

## Run!

Once you've entered values and confirmed, you'll then get a popup box with live
progress of what is currently happening with the creation of your template.

![Templating Running](../../assets/software-templates/running.png)

It shouldn't take too long, and you'll have a success screen!

![Templating Complete](../../assets/software-templates/complete.png)

If it fails, you'll be able to click on each section to get the log from the
step that failed which can be helpful in debugging.

![Templating failed](../../assets/software-templates/failed.png)

## View Component in Catalog

When it's been created, you'll see the `View in Catalog` button, which will take
you to the registered component in the catalog:

![Catalog](../../assets/software-templates/go-to-catalog.png)

And then you'll also be able to see it in the Catalog View table:

![Catalog](../../assets/software-templates/added-to-the-catalog-list.png)

Commit message:

Cancelling the running task (executing of a scaffolder template)
Signed-off-by: Bogdan Nechyporenko <bnechyporenko@bol.com>

docs/features/software-templates/index.md, after:

---
id: software-templates-index
title: Backstage Software Templates
sidebar_label: Overview
# prettier-ignore
description: The Software Templates part of Backstage is a tool that can help you create Components inside Backstage
---

The Software Templates part of Backstage is a tool that can help you create
Components inside Backstage. By default, it has the ability to load skeletons of
code, template in some variables, and then publish the template to some
locations like GitHub or GitLab.

<video width="100%" height="100%" controls>
  <source src="https://backstage.io/blog/assets/2020-08-05/feature.mp4" type="video/mp4" />
</video>

## Getting Started

> Be sure to have covered
> [Getting Started with Backstage](../../getting-started) before proceeding.

The Software Templates are available under `/create`. For local development you
should be able to reach them at `http://localhost:3000/create`.

Once there, you should see something that looks similar to this:

![Create Image](../../assets/software-templates/create.png)

## Choose a template

When you select a template that you want to create, you'll be taken to the next
page which may or may not look different for each template. Each template can
ask for different input variables, and they are then passed to the templater
internally.

![Enter some variables](../../assets/software-templates/template-picked.png)

After filling in these variables, you'll get some more fields to fill out which
are required for Backstage usage: the owner (which is a `user` in the backstage
system), and the `storePath` which is a destination URL to create for the
provider, for instance `https://github.com/backstage/my-new-repository`, or
`https://gitlab.com/myorg/myrepo`.

![Enter Backstage vars](../../assets/software-templates/template-picked-2.png)

## Run!

Once you've entered values and confirmed, you'll then get a popup box with live
progress of what is currently happening with the creation of your template.

![Templating Running](../../assets/software-templates/running.png)

It shouldn't take too long, and you'll have a success screen!

![Templating Complete](../../assets/software-templates/complete.png)

If it fails, you'll be able to click on each section to get the log from the
step that failed which can be helpful in debugging.

You can also cancel the running process. Once you clicked on button "Cancel", the abort signal
will be sent to a task and all next steps won't be executed. The current step will be cancelled
only if it supports it.

![Templating failed](../../assets/software-templates/failed.png)

## View Component in Catalog

When it's been created, you'll see the `View in Catalog` button, which will take
you to the registered component in the catalog:

![Catalog](../../assets/software-templates/go-to-catalog.png)

And then you'll also be able to see it in the Catalog View table:

![Catalog](../../assets/software-templates/added-to-the-catalog-list.png)
