docs/features/software-templates/writing-custom-actions.md, before:

---
id: writing-custom-actions
title: Writing Custom Actions
description: How to write your own actions
---

If you're wanting to extend the functionality of the Scaffolder, you can do so
by writing custom actions which can be used along side our
[built-in actions](./builtin-actions.md).

### Writing your Custom Action

Your custom action can live where you choose, but simplest is to include it
alongside your `backend` package in `packages/backend`.

Let's create a simple action that adds a new file and some contents that are
passed as `input` to the function.

In `packages/backend/src/plugins/scaffolder/actions/custom.ts` we can create a
new action.

```ts
import { createTemplateAction } from '@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend';
import fs from 'fs-extra';

export const createNewFileAction = () => {
  return createTemplateAction<{ contents: string; filename: string }>({
    id: 'mycompany:create-file',
    schema: {
      input: {
        required: ['contents', 'filename'],
        type: 'object',
        properties: {
          contents: {
            type: 'string',
            title: 'Contents',
            description: 'The contents of the file',
          },
          filename: {
            type: 'string',
            title: 'Filename',
            description: 'The filename of the file that will be created',
          },
        },
      },
    },
    async handler(ctx) {
      await fs.outputFile(
        `${ctx.workspacePath}/${ctx.input.filename}`,
        ctx.input.contents,
      );
    },
  });
};
```

So let's break this down. The `createNewFileAction` is a function that returns a
`createTemplateAction`, and it's a good place to pass in dependencies which
close over the `TemplateAction`. Take a look at our
[built-in actions](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/scaffolder-backend/src/scaffolder/actions/builtin)
for reference.

We set the type generic to `{ contents: string, filename: string }` which is
there to set the type on the handler `ctx` `inputs` property so we get good type
checking. This could be generated from the next part of this guide, the `input`
schema, but it's not supported right now. Feel free to contribute 🚀 👍.

The `createTemplateAction` takes an object which specifies the following:

- `id` - a unique ID for your custom action. We encourage you to namespace these
  in some way so that they won't collide with future built-in actions that we
  may ship with the `scaffolder-backend` plugin.
- `schema.input` - A JSON schema for input values to your function
- `schema.output` - A JSON schema for values which are outputted from the
  function using `ctx.output`
- `handler` - the actual code which is run part of the action, with a context

#### The context object

When the action `handler` is called, we provide you a `context` as the only
argument. It looks like the following:

- `ctx.baseUrl` - a string where the template is located
- `ctx.logger` - a Winston logger for additional logging inside your action
- `ctx.logStream` - a stream version of the logger if needed
- `ctx.workspacePath` - a string of the working directory of the template run
- `ctx.input` - an object which should match the JSON schema provided in the
  `schema.input` part of the action definition
- `ctx.output` - a function which you can call to set outputs that match the
  JSON schema in `schema.output` for ex. `ctx.output('downloadUrl', something)`
- `createTemporaryDirectory` a function to call to give you a temporary
  directory somewhere on the runner so you can store some files there rather
  than polluting the `workspacePath`

### Registering Custom Actions

Once you have your Custom Action ready for usage with the scaffolder, you'll
need to pass this into the `scaffolder-backend` `createRouter` function. You
should have something similar to the below in
`packages/backend/src/plugins/scaffolder.ts`

```ts
return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
});
```

There's another property you can pass here, which is an array of `actions` which
will set the available actions that the scaffolder has access to.

```ts
const actions = [createNewFileAction()];
return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
  actions,
});
```

**NOTE** - the actions array will replace the built-in actions too, so if you
want to have those as well as your new one, you'll need to do the following:

```ts
import { createBuiltinActions } from '@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend';
import { ScmIntegrations } from '@backstage/integration';

const integrations = ScmIntegrations.fromConfig(config);

const builtInActions = createBuiltinActions({
  containerRunner,
  integrations,
  config,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
});

const actions = [...builtInActions, createNewFileAction()];

return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
  actions,
});
```

### List of custom action packages

Here is a list of Open Source custom actions that you can add to your Backstage
scaffolder backend:

| Name          | Package                                                                                                                                 | Owner                             |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| Yeoman        | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-yeoman](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-yeoman)             | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| Cookiecutter  | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-cookiecutter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-cookiecutter) | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| Rails         | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-rails](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-rails)               | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| HTTP requests | [scaffolder-backend-module-http-request](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@roadiehq/scaffolder-backend-module-http-request)                | [Roadie](https://roadie.io)       |

Have fun! 🚀

Commit message:

Expose template metadata to custom action handler
Currently, we only expose the template name to satisfy the requirement from the issue, but more can be added easily (as long as the type is expanded accordingly).

Signed-off-by: Joon Park <joonp@spotify.com>

docs/features/software-templates/writing-custom-actions.md, after:

---
id: writing-custom-actions
title: Writing Custom Actions
description: How to write your own actions
---

If you're wanting to extend the functionality of the Scaffolder, you can do so
by writing custom actions which can be used along side our
[built-in actions](./builtin-actions.md).

### Writing your Custom Action

Your custom action can live where you choose, but simplest is to include it
alongside your `backend` package in `packages/backend`.

Let's create a simple action that adds a new file and some contents that are
passed as `input` to the function.

In `packages/backend/src/plugins/scaffolder/actions/custom.ts` we can create a
new action.

```ts
import { createTemplateAction } from '@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend';
import fs from 'fs-extra';

export const createNewFileAction = () => {
  return createTemplateAction<{ contents: string; filename: string }>({
    id: 'mycompany:create-file',
    schema: {
      input: {
        required: ['contents', 'filename'],
        type: 'object',
        properties: {
          contents: {
            type: 'string',
            title: 'Contents',
            description: 'The contents of the file',
          },
          filename: {
            type: 'string',
            title: 'Filename',
            description: 'The filename of the file that will be created',
          },
        },
      },
    },
    async handler(ctx) {
      await fs.outputFile(
        `${ctx.workspacePath}/${ctx.input.filename}`,
        ctx.input.contents,
      );
    },
  });
};
```

So let's break this down. The `createNewFileAction` is a function that returns a
`createTemplateAction`, and it's a good place to pass in dependencies which
close over the `TemplateAction`. Take a look at our
[built-in actions](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/plugins/scaffolder-backend/src/scaffolder/actions/builtin)
for reference.

We set the type generic to `{ contents: string, filename: string }` which is
there to set the type on the handler `ctx` `inputs` property so we get good type
checking. This could be generated from the next part of this guide, the `input`
schema, but it's not supported right now. Feel free to contribute 🚀 👍.

The `createTemplateAction` takes an object which specifies the following:

- `id` - a unique ID for your custom action. We encourage you to namespace these
  in some way so that they won't collide with future built-in actions that we
  may ship with the `scaffolder-backend` plugin.
- `schema.input` - A JSON schema for input values to your function
- `schema.output` - A JSON schema for values which are outputted from the
  function using `ctx.output`
- `handler` - the actual code which is run part of the action, with a context

#### The context object

When the action `handler` is called, we provide you a `context` as the only
argument. It looks like the following:

- `ctx.baseUrl` - a string where the template is located
- `ctx.logger` - a Winston logger for additional logging inside your action
- `ctx.logStream` - a stream version of the logger if needed
- `ctx.workspacePath` - a string of the working directory of the template run
- `ctx.input` - an object which should match the JSON schema provided in the
  `schema.input` part of the action definition
- `ctx.output` - a function which you can call to set outputs that match the
  JSON schema in `schema.output` for ex. `ctx.output('downloadUrl', something)`
- `createTemporaryDirectory` a function to call to give you a temporary
  directory somewhere on the runner so you can store some files there rather
  than polluting the `workspacePath`
- `ctx.metadata` - an object containing a `name` field, indicating the template
  name. More metadata fields may be added later.

### Registering Custom Actions

Once you have your Custom Action ready for usage with the scaffolder, you'll
need to pass this into the `scaffolder-backend` `createRouter` function. You
should have something similar to the below in
`packages/backend/src/plugins/scaffolder.ts`

```ts
return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
});
```

There's another property you can pass here, which is an array of `actions` which
will set the available actions that the scaffolder has access to.

```ts
const actions = [createNewFileAction()];
return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
  actions,
});
```

**NOTE** - the actions array will replace the built-in actions too, so if you
want to have those as well as your new one, you'll need to do the following:

```ts
import { createBuiltinActions } from '@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend';
import { ScmIntegrations } from '@backstage/integration';

const integrations = ScmIntegrations.fromConfig(config);

const builtInActions = createBuiltinActions({
  containerRunner,
  integrations,
  config,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
});

const actions = [...builtInActions, createNewFileAction()];

return await createRouter({
  containerRunner,
  logger,
  config,
  database,
  catalogClient,
  reader,
  actions,
});
```

### List of custom action packages

Here is a list of Open Source custom actions that you can add to your Backstage
scaffolder backend:

| Name          | Package                                                                                                                                 | Owner                             |
| ------------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | --------------------------------- |
| Yeoman        | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-yeoman](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-yeoman)             | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| Cookiecutter  | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-cookiecutter](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-cookiecutter) | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| Rails         | [plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-rails](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-rails)               | [Backstage](https://backstage.io) |
| HTTP requests | [scaffolder-backend-module-http-request](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@roadiehq/scaffolder-backend-module-http-request)                | [Roadie](https://roadie.io)       |

Have fun! 🚀
