docs/features/techdocs/creating-and-publishing.md, before:

---
id: creating-and-publishing
title: Creating and publishing your docs
sidebar_label: Creating and Publishing Documentation
description: Guidance on how to create and publish documentation
---

This section will guide you through:

- [Create a basic documentation setup](#create-a-basic-documentation-setup)
  - [Use any software template](#use-the-documentation-template)
  - [Manually add documentation setup to already existing repository](#manually-add-documentation-setup-to-already-existing-repository)
  - [Use the documentation template](#use-the-documentation-template)
- [Writing and previewing your documentation](#writing-and-previewing-your-documentation)

## Prerequisites

- A working Backstage instance with TechDocs installed (see
  [TechDocs getting started](getting-started.md))

## Create a basic documentation setup

If you have an existing repository that you'd like to add documentation to, skip
to the
[Manually add documentation setup](#manually-add-documentation-setup-to-already-existing-repository)
section below. Otherwise, continue reading to start a documentation repo from
scratch.

### Use the documentation template

Your working Backstage instance should by default have a documentation template
added. If not, copy the catalog locations from the
[create-app template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/app-config.yaml.hbs)
to add the documentation template. The template creates a component with only
TechDocs configuration and default markdown files as below mentioned in manual
documentation setup, and is otherwise empty.

![Documentation Template](../../assets/techdocs/documentation-template.png)

Create an entity from the documentation template and you will get the needed
setup for free.

### Manually add documentation setup to already existing repository

Prerequisites:

- An existing component
  [registered in backstage](../software-catalog/index.md#adding-components-to-the-catalog)
  (e.g. via a `catalog-info.yaml` file).

Create an `mkdocs.yml` file in the root of your repository with the following
content:

```yaml
site_name: 'example-docs'

nav:
  - Home: index.md

plugins:
  - techdocs-core
```

Update your component's entity description by adding the following lines to its
`catalog-info.yaml` in the root of its repository:

```yaml
metadata:
  annotations:
    backstage.io/techdocs-ref: dir:.
```

The
[`backstage.io/techdocs-ref` annotation](../software-catalog/well-known-annotations.md#backstageiotechdocs-ref)
is used by TechDocs to download the documentation source files for generating an
Entity's TechDocs site.

Create a `/docs` folder in the root of the project with at least an `index.md`
file. _(If you add more markdown files, make sure to update the nav in the
mkdocs.yml file to get a proper navigation for your documentation.)_

> Note - Although `docs` is a popular directory name for storing documentation,
> it can be renamed to something else and can be configured by `mkdocs.yml`. See
> https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#docs_dir

The `docs/index.md` can for example have the following content:

```md
# example docs

This is a basic example of documentation.
```

Commit your changes, open a pull request and merge. You will now get your
updated documentation next time you run Backstage!

## Writing and previewing your documentation

Using the `techdocs-cli` you can preview your docs inside a local Backstage
instance and get live reload on changes. This is useful when you want to preview
your documentation while writing.

To do this you can run:

```bash
cd /path/to/docs-repository/
npx @techdocs/cli serve
```

Commit message:

write new 'Use any software template' section
Signed-off-by: Emma Indal <emma.indahl@gmail.com>

docs/features/techdocs/creating-and-publishing.md, after:

---
id: creating-and-publishing
title: Creating and publishing your docs
sidebar_label: Creating and Publishing Documentation
description: Guidance on how to create and publish documentation
---

This section will guide you through:

- [Create a basic documentation setup](#create-a-basic-documentation-setup)
  - [Use any software template](#use-the-documentation-template)
  - [Manually add documentation setup to already existing repository](#manually-add-documentation-setup-to-already-existing-repository)
  - [Use the documentation template](#use-the-documentation-template)
- [Writing and previewing your documentation](#writing-and-previewing-your-documentation)

## Prerequisites

- A working Backstage instance with TechDocs installed (see
  [TechDocs getting started](getting-started.md))

## Create a basic documentation setup

If you have an existing repository that you'd like to add documentation to, skip
to the
[Manually add documentation setup](#manually-add-documentation-setup-to-already-existing-repository)
section below. Otherwise, continue reading to create a new software entity
including documentation from scratch.

### Use any software template

TechDocs is built on top of the
[docs like code approach](https://www.docslikecode.com/about/). This, in short,
means that you should keep documentation close to the code.

Your Backstage app should by default have a set of software templates added, all
of these software templates include everything you need to get your TechDocs
site up and running and to start write your documentation.

If you have created software templates that do not include documentation by
default, we highly recommend you to set that up. Follow our how-to guide
[How to add documentation setup to my software templates](link) to get started.

### Use the documentation template

Your working Backstage instance should by default have a documentation template
added. If not, copy the catalog locations from the
[create-app template](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/blob/master/packages/create-app/templates/default-app/app-config.yaml.hbs)
to add the documentation template. The template creates a component with only
TechDocs configuration and default markdown files as below mentioned in manual
documentation setup, and is otherwise empty.

![Documentation Template](../../assets/techdocs/documentation-template.png)

Create an entity from the documentation template and you will get the needed
setup for free.

### Manually add documentation setup to already existing repository

Prerequisites:

- An existing component
  [registered in backstage](../software-catalog/index.md#adding-components-to-the-catalog)
  (e.g. via a `catalog-info.yaml` file).

Create an `mkdocs.yml` file in the root of your repository with the following
content:

```yaml
site_name: 'example-docs'

nav:
  - Home: index.md

plugins:
  - techdocs-core
```

Update your component's entity description by adding the following lines to its
`catalog-info.yaml` in the root of its repository:

```yaml
metadata:
  annotations:
    backstage.io/techdocs-ref: dir:.
```

The
[`backstage.io/techdocs-ref` annotation](../software-catalog/well-known-annotations.md#backstageiotechdocs-ref)
is used by TechDocs to download the documentation source files for generating an
Entity's TechDocs site.

Create a `/docs` folder in the root of the project with at least an `index.md`
file. _(If you add more markdown files, make sure to update the nav in the
mkdocs.yml file to get a proper navigation for your documentation.)_

> Note - Although `docs` is a popular directory name for storing documentation,
> it can be renamed to something else and can be configured by `mkdocs.yml`. See
> https://www.mkdocs.org/user-guide/configuration/#docs_dir

The `docs/index.md` can for example have the following content:

```md
# example docs

This is a basic example of documentation.
```

Commit your changes, open a pull request and merge. You will now get your
updated documentation next time you run Backstage!

## Writing and previewing your documentation

Using the `techdocs-cli` you can preview your docs inside a local Backstage
instance and get live reload on changes. This is useful when you want to preview
your documentation while writing.

To do this you can run:

```bash
cd /path/to/docs-repository/
npx @techdocs/cli serve
```
