docs/features/techdocs/troubleshooting.md, before:

---
id: troubleshooting
title: Troubleshooting TechDocs
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting for TechDocs
---

## Failure to clone

TechDocs will fail to clone your docs if you have a git config which overrides
the `https` protocol with `ssh` or something else. Make sure to remove your git
config locally when you try TechDocs.

## MkDocs Build Errors

Using the [TechDocs CLI](https://github.com/backstage/techdocs-cli), you can
troubleshoot MkDocs build issues locally. Note this requires you have Docker
available to launch images. First, `git clone` the target repository locally,
then in the root of the repository, run:

```
npx @techdocs/cli serve
```

For example, if you have forgotten to put an MkDocs configuration file in your
repo, the resulting error will be:

```
npx: installed 278 in 9.089s
[techdocs-preview-bundle] Running local version of Backstage at http://localhost:3000
INFO    -  Building documentation...

Config file '/content/mkdocs.yml' does not exist.
```

When it works, a local copy of both Backstage and your site will be launched
locally:

```
npx: installed 278 in 9.682s
[techdocs-preview-bundle] Running local version of Backstage at http://localhost:3000
INFO    -  Building documentation...
WARNING -  Config value: 'dev_addr'. Warning: The use of the IP address '0.0.0.0'
  suggests a production environment or the use of a proxy to connect to the MkDocs
  server. However, the MkDocs' server is intended for local development purposes only.
  Please use a third party production-ready server instead.
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
DEBUG   -  Successfully imported extension module "plantuml_markdown".
DEBUG   -  Successfully loaded extension "plantuml_markdown.PlantUMLMarkdownExtension".
INFO    -  Documentation built in 0.23 seconds
[I 210115 19:00:45 server:335] Serving on http://0.0.0.0:8000
INFO    -  Serving on http://0.0.0.0:8000
[I 210115 19:00:45 handlers:62] Start watching changes
INFO    -  Start watching changes
[I 210115 19:00:45 handlers:64] Start detecting changes
INFO    -  Start detecting changes
```

## PlantUML with `svg_object` doesn't render

The [plantuml-markdown](https://pypi.org/project/plantuml-markdown/) MkDocs
plugin available in
[`mkdocs-techdocs-core`](https://github.com/backstage/mkdocs-techdocs-core)
supports different formats for rendering diagrams. TechDocs does however not
support all of them.

The `svg_object` format renders a diagram as an HTML `<object>` tag but this is
not allowed as it enables bad actors to inject malicious content into
documentation pages. See
[CVE-2021-32661](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-gg96-f8wr-p89f) for more
details.

Instead use `svg_inline` which renders as an `<svg>` tag and provides the same
benefits as `svg_object`.

Commit message:

Document URL Reader export-ignore limitations
Signed-off-by: Eric Peterson <ericpeterson@spotify.com>

docs/features/techdocs/troubleshooting.md, after:

---
id: troubleshooting
title: Troubleshooting TechDocs
sidebar_label: Troubleshooting
description: Troubleshooting for TechDocs
---

## Documentation not found when generating

This may happen if you have TechDocs set up using the "out-of-the-box"
configuration, wherein documentation is built dynamically by the TechDocs
backend, and your TechDocs files are being pulled from a git-based source
control management system (e.g. GitHub, BitBucket, etc).

If you experience this, check that TechDocs-related files (e.g. markdown,
assets, or the `mkdocs.yml` file) are not matched by an `export-ignore`
attribute in a `.gitattributes` file in the relevant repository.

TechDocs' backend is not able to see such files, and therefore may generate
partial (or no) TechDocs as a result.

You'll need to reconsider how you distribute tar archives based on your source
code (and how you prevent internal documentation from being included in those
archives). Alternatively, you could consider switching to the "recommended"
TechDocs architecture (documentation generated and published in CI/CD).

## MkDocs Build Errors

Using the [TechDocs CLI](https://github.com/backstage/techdocs-cli), you can
troubleshoot MkDocs build issues locally. Note this requires you have Docker
available to launch images. First, `git clone` the target repository locally,
then in the root of the repository, run:

```
npx @techdocs/cli serve
```

For example, if you have forgotten to put an MkDocs configuration file in your
repo, the resulting error will be:

```
npx: installed 278 in 9.089s
[techdocs-preview-bundle] Running local version of Backstage at http://localhost:3000
INFO    -  Building documentation...

Config file '/content/mkdocs.yml' does not exist.
```

When it works, a local copy of both Backstage and your site will be launched
locally:

```
npx: installed 278 in 9.682s
[techdocs-preview-bundle] Running local version of Backstage at http://localhost:3000
INFO    -  Building documentation...
WARNING -  Config value: 'dev_addr'. Warning: The use of the IP address '0.0.0.0'
  suggests a production environment or the use of a proxy to connect to the MkDocs
  server. However, the MkDocs' server is intended for local development purposes only.
  Please use a third party production-ready server instead.
INFO    -  Cleaning site directory
DEBUG   -  Successfully imported extension module "plantuml_markdown".
DEBUG   -  Successfully loaded extension "plantuml_markdown.PlantUMLMarkdownExtension".
INFO    -  Documentation built in 0.23 seconds
[I 210115 19:00:45 server:335] Serving on http://0.0.0.0:8000
INFO    -  Serving on http://0.0.0.0:8000
[I 210115 19:00:45 handlers:62] Start watching changes
INFO    -  Start watching changes
[I 210115 19:00:45 handlers:64] Start detecting changes
INFO    -  Start detecting changes
```

## PlantUML with `svg_object` doesn't render

The [plantuml-markdown](https://pypi.org/project/plantuml-markdown/) MkDocs
plugin available in
[`mkdocs-techdocs-core`](https://github.com/backstage/mkdocs-techdocs-core)
supports different formats for rendering diagrams. TechDocs does however not
support all of them.

The `svg_object` format renders a diagram as an HTML `<object>` tag but this is
not allowed as it enables bad actors to inject malicious content into
documentation pages. See
[CVE-2021-32661](https://github.com/advisories/GHSA-gg96-f8wr-p89f) for more
details.

Instead use `svg_inline` which renders as an `<svg>` tag and provides the same
benefits as `svg_object`.
