OWNERS.md, before:

- See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for general contribution guidelines.
- See [GOVERNANCE.md](GOVERNANCE.md) for governance guidelines and responsibilities.

## Core Maintainers

Team: @backstage/maintainers

| Maintainer      | Organization | GitHub                                          | Discord       |
| --------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Patrik Oldsberg | Spotify      | [Rugvip](https://github.com/Rugvip)             | `Rugvip#0019` |
| Fredrik Adelöw  | Spotify      | [freben](https://github.com/freben)             | `freben#3926` |
| Ben Lambert     | Spotify      | [benjdlambert](https://github.com/benjdlambert) | `blam#2159`   |
| Johan Haals     | Spotify      | [jhaals](https://github.com/jhaals)             | `Johan#0679`  |

## Project Areas

These are the separate project areas of Backstage, each with their own project area maintainers

### Catalog

Team: @backstage/catalog-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team      | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | --------- | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | Chipmunks | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

### TechDocs

Team: @backstage/techdocs-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team         | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | Pulp Fiction | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

### Search

Team: @backstage/search-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | BUX  | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

## Sponsors

| Name              | Organization | GitHub                                      | Email             |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Niklas Gustavsson | Spotify      | [protocol7](https://github.com/protocol7)   | ngn@spotify.com   |
| Dave Zolotusky    | Spotify      | [dzolotusky](https://github.com/dzolotusky) | dzolo@spotify.com |
| Lee Mills         | Spotify      | [leemills83](https://github.com/leemills83) | leem@spotify.com  |

## Organization Members

| Name            | Organization             | GitHub                                          | Discord                        |
| --------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Adam Harvey     | Cisco                    | [adamdmharvey](https://github.com/adamdmharvey) | `adamharvey#3739`              |
| Andre Wanlin    | Keyloop                  | [awanlin](https://github.com/awanlin)           | `Ahhhndre#3095`                |
| Andrew Thauer   | Wealthsimple             | [andrewthauer](https://github.com/andrewthauer) | `andrewthauer#3060`            |
| Brian Fletcher  | RoadieHQ                 | [punkle](https://github.com/punkle)             | `Brian Fletcher#7051`          |
| David Tuite     | Roadie                   | [dtuite](https://github.com/dtuite)             | `David Tuite (roadie.io)#1010` |
| Jussi Hallila   | Roadie                   | [Xantier](https://github.com/Xantier)           | `Xantier#0086`                 |
| Mark Avery      | Cvent                    | [webark](https://github.com/webark)             | `webark#8471`                  |
| Phil Kuang      | FactSet Research Systems | [kuangp](https://github.com/kuangp)             | `pkuang#3202`                  |
| Taras Mankovski | Frontside                | [taras](https://github.com/taras)               | `tarasm#1256`                  |

## Emeritus Core Maintainers

| Maintainer   | Organization | GitHub                                        | Discord        |
| ------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Stefan Ålund | Spotify      | [stefanalund](https://github.com/stefanalund) | `stalund#9602` |

Commit message:

OWNERS: add Kubernetes project area
Signed-off-by: Patrik Oldsberg <poldsberg@gmail.com>

OWNERS.md, after:

- See [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for general contribution guidelines.
- See [GOVERNANCE.md](GOVERNANCE.md) for governance guidelines and responsibilities.

## Core Maintainers

Team: @backstage/maintainers

| Maintainer      | Organization | GitHub                                          | Discord       |
| --------------- | ------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| Patrik Oldsberg | Spotify      | [Rugvip](https://github.com/Rugvip)             | `Rugvip#0019` |
| Fredrik Adelöw  | Spotify      | [freben](https://github.com/freben)             | `freben#3926` |
| Ben Lambert     | Spotify      | [benjdlambert](https://github.com/benjdlambert) | `blam#2159`   |
| Johan Haals     | Spotify      | [jhaals](https://github.com/jhaals)             | `Johan#0679`  |

## Project Areas

These are the separate project areas of Backstage, each with their own project area maintainers

### Catalog

Team: @backstage/catalog-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team      | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | --------- | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | Chipmunks | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

### Kubernetes

Team: @backstage/kubernetes-maintainers

Scope: The Kubernetes plugin and the base it provides for other plugins to build upon.

| Name           | Organization | Team | GitHub                                   | Discord      |
| -------------- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------------------- | ------------ |
| Matthew Clarke | Spotify      |      | [mclarke47](http://github.com/mclarke47) | mclarke#0725 |

### TechDocs

Team: @backstage/techdocs-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team         | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | ------------ | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | Pulp Fiction | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

### Search

Team: @backstage/search-maintainers

| Name | Organization | Team | GitHub                       | Discord |
| ---- | ------------ | ---- | ---------------------------- | ------- |
| TBD  | Spotify      | BUX  | [TBD](http://github.com/TBD) | -       |

## Sponsors

| Name              | Organization | GitHub                                      | Email             |
| ----------------- | ------------ | ------------------------------------------- | ----------------- |
| Niklas Gustavsson | Spotify      | [protocol7](https://github.com/protocol7)   | ngn@spotify.com   |
| Dave Zolotusky    | Spotify      | [dzolotusky](https://github.com/dzolotusky) | dzolo@spotify.com |
| Lee Mills         | Spotify      | [leemills83](https://github.com/leemills83) | leem@spotify.com  |

## Organization Members

| Name            | Organization             | GitHub                                          | Discord                        |
| --------------- | ------------------------ | ----------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ |
| Adam Harvey     | Cisco                    | [adamdmharvey](https://github.com/adamdmharvey) | `adamharvey#3739`              |
| Andre Wanlin    | Keyloop                  | [awanlin](https://github.com/awanlin)           | `Ahhhndre#3095`                |
| Andrew Thauer   | Wealthsimple             | [andrewthauer](https://github.com/andrewthauer) | `andrewthauer#3060`            |
| Brian Fletcher  | RoadieHQ                 | [punkle](https://github.com/punkle)             | `Brian Fletcher#7051`          |
| David Tuite     | Roadie                   | [dtuite](https://github.com/dtuite)             | `David Tuite (roadie.io)#1010` |
| Jussi Hallila   | Roadie                   | [Xantier](https://github.com/Xantier)           | `Xantier#0086`                 |
| Mark Avery      | Cvent                    | [webark](https://github.com/webark)             | `webark#8471`                  |
| Phil Kuang      | FactSet Research Systems | [kuangp](https://github.com/kuangp)             | `pkuang#3202`                  |
| Taras Mankovski | Frontside                | [taras](https://github.com/taras)               | `tarasm#1256`                  |

## Emeritus Core Maintainers

| Maintainer   | Organization | GitHub                                        | Discord        |
| ------------ | ------------ | --------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| Stefan Ålund | Spotify      | [stefanalund](https://github.com/stefanalund) | `stalund#9602` |
