plugins/catalog-backend-module-msgraph/README.md, before:

# Catalog Backend Module for Microsoft Graph

This is an extension module to the `plugin-catalog-backend` plugin, providing a
`MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor` that can be used to ingest organization data
from the Microsoft Graph API. This processor is useful if you want to import
users and groups from Azure Active Directory or Office 365.

## Getting Started

1. The processor is not installed by default, therefore you have to add a
   dependency to `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-msgraph` to your
   backend package.

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
cd packages/backend
yarn add @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-msgraph
```

2. The `MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor` is not registered by default, so you
   have to register it in the catalog plugin:

```typescript
// packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts
builder.addProcessor(
  MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor.fromConfig(config, {
    logger,
  }),
);
```

3. Create or use an existing App registration in the [Microsoft Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
   The App registration requires at least the API permissions `Group.Read.All`,
   `GroupMember.Read.All`, `User.Read` and `User.Read.All` for Microsoft Graph
   (if you still run into errors about insufficient privileges, add
   `Team.ReadBasic.All` and `TeamMember.Read.All` too).

4. Configure the processor:

```yaml
# app-config.yaml
catalog:
  processors:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providers:
        - target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
          authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com
          # If you don't know you tenantId, you can use Microsoft Graph Explorer
          # to query it
          tenantId: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_TENANT_ID}
          # Client Id and Secret can be created under Certificates & secrets in
          # the App registration in the Microsoft Azure Portal.
          clientId: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_CLIENT_ID}
          clientSecret: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_CLIENT_SECRET_TOKEN}
          # Optional filter for user, see Microsoft Graph API for the syntax
          # See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/user?view=graph-rest-1.0#properties
          # and for the syntax https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/query-parameters#filter-parameter
          userFilter: accountEnabled eq true and userType eq 'member'
          # Optional filter for users, use group membership to get users
          # This appends the users to the list of users retrieved via userFilter
          userGroupMemberFilter: "displayName eq 'Backstage Users'"
          # Optional filter for group, see Microsoft Graph API for the syntax
          # See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/group?view=graph-rest-1.0#properties
          groupFilter: securityEnabled eq false and mailEnabled eq true and groupTypes/any(c:c+eq+'Unified')
```

5. Add a location that ingests from Microsoft Graph:

```yaml
# app-config.yaml
catalog:
  locations:
    - type: microsoft-graph-org
      target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
      # If you catalog doesn't allow to import Group and User entities by
      # default, allow them here
      rules:
        - allow: [Group, User]
    …
```

## Customize the Processor

In case you want to customize the ingested entities, the `MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor`
allows to pass transformers for users, groups and the organization.

1. Create a transformer:

```ts
export async function myGroupTransformer(
  group: MicrosoftGraph.Group,
  groupPhoto?: string,
): Promise<GroupEntity | undefined> {
  if (
    (
      group as unknown as {
        creationOptions: string[];
      }
    ).creationOptions.includes('ProvisionGroupHomepage')
  ) {
    return undefined;
  }

  // Transformations may change namespace, change entity naming pattern, fill
  // profile with more or other details...

  // Create the group entity on your own, or wrap the default transformer
  return await defaultGroupTransformer(group, groupPhoto);
}
```

2. Configure the processor with the transformer:

```ts
builder.addProcessor(
  MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor.fromConfig(config, {
    logger,
    groupTransformer: myGroupTransformer,
  }),
);
```

Commit message:

Make userFilter and userGroupMemberFilter mutually exclusive
Signed-off-by: Mustansar Anwar ul Samad <mustansar.samad@gmail.com>

plugins/catalog-backend-module-msgraph/README.md, after:

# Catalog Backend Module for Microsoft Graph

This is an extension module to the `plugin-catalog-backend` plugin, providing a
`MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor` that can be used to ingest organization data
from the Microsoft Graph API. This processor is useful if you want to import
users and groups from Azure Active Directory or Office 365.

## Getting Started

1. The processor is not installed by default, therefore you have to add a
   dependency to `@backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-msgraph` to your
   backend package.

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
cd packages/backend
yarn add @backstage/plugin-catalog-backend-module-msgraph
```

2. The `MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor` is not registered by default, so you
   have to register it in the catalog plugin:

```typescript
// packages/backend/src/plugins/catalog.ts
builder.addProcessor(
  MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor.fromConfig(config, {
    logger,
  }),
);
```

3. Create or use an existing App registration in the [Microsoft Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
   The App registration requires at least the API permissions `Group.Read.All`,
   `GroupMember.Read.All`, `User.Read` and `User.Read.All` for Microsoft Graph
   (if you still run into errors about insufficient privileges, add
   `Team.ReadBasic.All` and `TeamMember.Read.All` too).

4. Configure the processor:

```yaml
# app-config.yaml
catalog:
  processors:
    microsoftGraphOrg:
      providers:
        - target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
          authority: https://login.microsoftonline.com
          # If you don't know you tenantId, you can use Microsoft Graph Explorer
          # to query it
          tenantId: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_TENANT_ID}
          # Client Id and Secret can be created under Certificates & secrets in
          # the App registration in the Microsoft Azure Portal.
          clientId: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_CLIENT_ID}
          clientSecret: ${MICROSOFT_GRAPH_CLIENT_SECRET_TOKEN}
          # Optional filter for user, see Microsoft Graph API for the syntax
          # See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/user?view=graph-rest-1.0#properties
          # and for the syntax https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/query-parameters#filter-parameter
          # This and userGroupMemberFilter are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified
          userFilter: accountEnabled eq true and userType eq 'member'
          # Optional filter for users, use group membership to get users.
          # This and userFilter are mutually exclusive, only one can be specified
          userGroupMemberFilter: "displayName eq 'Backstage Users'"
          # Optional filter for group, see Microsoft Graph API for the syntax
          # See https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/graph/api/resources/group?view=graph-rest-1.0#properties
          groupFilter: securityEnabled eq false and mailEnabled eq true and groupTypes/any(c:c+eq+'Unified')
```

`userFilter` and `userGroupMemberFilter` are mutually exclusive, only one can be provided. If both are provided, an error will be thrown.

By default, all users are loaded. If you want to filter users based on their attributes, use `userFilter`. `userGroupMemberFilter` can be used if you want to load users based on their group membership.

5. Add a location that ingests from Microsoft Graph:

```yaml
# app-config.yaml
catalog:
  locations:
    - type: microsoft-graph-org
      target: https://graph.microsoft.com/v1.0
      # If you catalog doesn't allow to import Group and User entities by
      # default, allow them here
      rules:
        - allow: [Group, User]
    …
```

## Customize the Processor

In case you want to customize the ingested entities, the `MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor`
allows to pass transformers for users, groups and the organization.

1. Create a transformer:

```ts
export async function myGroupTransformer(
  group: MicrosoftGraph.Group,
  groupPhoto?: string,
): Promise<GroupEntity | undefined> {
  if (
    (
      group as unknown as {
        creationOptions: string[];
      }
    ).creationOptions.includes('ProvisionGroupHomepage')
  ) {
    return undefined;
  }

  // Transformations may change namespace, change entity naming pattern, fill
  // profile with more or other details...

  // Create the group entity on your own, or wrap the default transformer
  return await defaultGroupTransformer(group, groupPhoto);
}
```

2. Configure the processor with the transformer:

```ts
builder.addProcessor(
  MicrosoftGraphOrgReaderProcessor.fromConfig(config, {
    logger,
    groupTransformer: myGroupTransformer,
  }),
);
```
