docs/backend-system/core-services/root-http-router.md, before:

---
id: root-http-router
title: Root Http Router Service
sidebar_label: Root Http Router
description: Documentation for the Root Http Router service
---

The root HTTP router is a service that allows you to register routes on the root of the backend service. This is useful for things like health checks, or other routes that you want to expose on the root of the backend service. It is used as the base router that backs the `httpRouter` service and starts the Node.js HTTP server on backend startup. Most likely you won't need to use this service directly, but rather use the `httpRouter` service.

The `/api/:pluginId/` path prefix is reserved for use by plugins to register their own routes via the [HttpRouter](./http-router.md) service.

## Using the service

The following example shows how to get the root HTTP router service in your `example` backend plugin to register a health check route.

```ts
import {
  coreServices,
  createBackendPlugin,
} from '@backstage/backend-plugin-api';
import { Router } from 'express';

createBackendPlugin({
  pluginId: 'example',
  register(env) {
    env.registerInit({
      deps: {
        rootHttpRouter: coreServices.rootHttpRouter,
      },
      async init({ rootHttpRouter }) {
        const router = Router();
        router.get('/readiness', (request, response) => {
          response.send('OK');
        });

        rootHttpRouter.use('/health', router);
      },
    });
  },
});
```

## Configuring the service

There's additional options that you can pass to configure the root HTTP Router service. These options are passed when you call `createBackend`.

- `indexPath` - optional path to forward all unmatched requests to. Defaults to `/api/app` which is the `app-backend` plugin responsible for serving the frontend application through the backend.

- `configure` - this is an optional function that you can use to configure the `express` instance. This is useful if you want to add your own middleware to the root router, such as logging, or other things that you want to do before the request is handled by the backend. It's also useful to override the order in which middleware is applied.

You can configure the root HTTP Router service by passing the options to the `createBackend` function.

```ts
import { rootHttpRouterServiceFactory } from '@backstage/backend-app-api';
import { RequestHandler } from 'express';
import morgan from 'morgan';

const backend = createBackend();

backend.add(
  rootHttpRouterServiceFactory({
    configure: ({ app, middleware, routes, config, logger, healthRouter }) => {
      // Refer to https://expressjs.com/en/guide/writing-middleware.html on how to write express middleware
      const customMiddleware = {
        logging(): RequestHandler {
          const middlewareLogger = logger.child({
            type: 'incomingRequest',
          });
          return (req, res, next) => {
            // Custom Logging Implementation
            next();
          };
        },
        // Default logging middleware uses the [morgan](https://github.com/expressjs/morgan) middleware which you can configure with custom formats.
        morganLogging(): RequestHandler {
          const middlewareLogger = logger.child({
            type: 'incomingRequest',
          });
          const customMorganFormat =
            '[:date[clf]] ":method :url HTTP/:http-version" :status ":user-agent"';
          return morgan(customMorganFormat, {
            stream: {
              write(message: string) {
                logger.info(message.trimEnd());
              },
            },
          });
        },
      };

      // The default implementation pretty-prints JSON responses in development
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
        app.set('json spaces', 2);
      }

      // the built in middleware is provided through an option in the configure function
      app.use(middleware.helmet());
      app.use(middleware.cors());
      app.use(middleware.compression());

      app.use(healthRouter);

      // you can add you your own middleware in here
      app.use(customMiddleware.logging());

      // here the routes that are registered by other plugins
      app.use(routes);

      // some other middleware that comes after the other routes
      app.use(middleware.notFound());
      app.use(middleware.error());
    },
  }),
);
```

Note that requests towards `/api/*` will never be handled by the `routes` handler unless a matching plugin exists, and will instead typically falling through to the `middleware.notFound()` handler. That is the case regardless of whether there is a configured `indexPath` or not.

The root HTTP Router service also allows for configuration of the underlying Node.js HTTP server object. This is useful for modifying settings on the HTTP server itself, such as server [timeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#servertimeout), [keepAliveTimeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#serverkeepalivetimeout), and [headersTimeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#serverheaderstimeout).

A `applyDefaults` helper is also made available to use the default app/router configuration while still enabling custom server configuration

```ts
import { rootHttpRouterServiceFactory } from '@backstage/backend-app-api';

const backend = createBackend();

backend.add(
  rootHttpRouterServiceFactory({
    configure: ({ server, applyDefaults }) => {
      // apply default app/router configuration
      applyDefaults();

      // customize the Node.js HTTP Server timeouts
      server.keepAliveTimeout = 65 * 1000;
      server.headersTimeout = 66 * 1000;
    },
  }),
);
```

Commit message:

refator: move lifecycle middleware to root http
Signed-off-by: Camila Belo <camilaibs@gmail.com>

docs/backend-system/core-services/root-http-router.md, after:

---
id: root-http-router
title: Root Http Router Service
sidebar_label: Root Http Router
description: Documentation for the Root Http Router service
---

The root HTTP router is a service that allows you to register routes on the root of the backend service. This is useful for things like health checks, or other routes that you want to expose on the root of the backend service. It is used as the base router that backs the `httpRouter` service and starts the Node.js HTTP server on backend startup. Most likely you won't need to use this service directly, but rather use the `httpRouter` service.

The `/api/:pluginId/` path prefix is reserved for use by plugins to register their own routes via the [HttpRouter](./http-router.md) service.

## Using the service

The following example shows how to get the root HTTP router service in your `example` backend plugin to register a health check route.

```ts
import {
  coreServices,
  createBackendPlugin,
} from '@backstage/backend-plugin-api';
import { Router } from 'express';

createBackendPlugin({
  pluginId: 'example',
  register(env) {
    env.registerInit({
      deps: {
        rootHttpRouter: coreServices.rootHttpRouter,
      },
      async init({ rootHttpRouter }) {
        const router = Router();
        router.get('/readiness', (request, response) => {
          response.send('OK');
        });

        rootHttpRouter.use('/health', router);
      },
    });
  },
});
```

## Configuring the service

### Via `app-config.yaml`

The `app-config.yaml` file provides configurable options that can be adjusted to meet your `RootHttpRouterService` specific requirements:

```yaml
backend:
  lifecycle:
    # (Optional) The maximum time that paused requests will wait for the service to start, before returning an error (defaults to 5 seconds).
    startupRequestPauseTimeout: { seconds: 10 }
    # (Optional) The maximum time that the server will wait for stop accepting traffic, before returning an error (defaults to 30 seconds).
    shutdownRequestPauseTimeout: { seconds: 20 }
```

### Via Code

There's additional options that you can pass to configure the root HTTP Router service. These options are passed when you call `createBackend`.

- `indexPath` - optional path to forward all unmatched requests to. Defaults to `/api/app` which is the `app-backend` plugin responsible for serving the frontend application through the backend.

- `configure` - this is an optional function that you can use to configure the `express` instance. This is useful if you want to add your own middleware to the root router, such as logging, or other things that you want to do before the request is handled by the backend. It's also useful to override the order in which middleware is applied.

You can configure the root HTTP Router service by passing the options to the `createBackend` function.

```ts
import { rootHttpRouterServiceFactory } from '@backstage/backend-app-api';
import { RequestHandler } from 'express';
import morgan from 'morgan';

const backend = createBackend();

backend.add(
  rootHttpRouterServiceFactory({
    configure: ({ app, middleware, routes, config, logger, healthRouter }) => {
      // Refer to https://expressjs.com/en/guide/writing-middleware.html on how to write express middleware
      const customMiddleware = {
        logging(): RequestHandler {
          const middlewareLogger = logger.child({
            type: 'incomingRequest',
          });
          return (req, res, next) => {
            // Custom Logging Implementation
            next();
          };
        },
        // Default logging middleware uses the [morgan](https://github.com/expressjs/morgan) middleware which you can configure with custom formats.
        morganLogging(): RequestHandler {
          const middlewareLogger = logger.child({
            type: 'incomingRequest',
          });
          const customMorganFormat =
            '[:date[clf]] ":method :url HTTP/:http-version" :status ":user-agent"';
          return morgan(customMorganFormat, {
            stream: {
              write(message: string) {
                logger.info(message.trimEnd());
              },
            },
          });
        },
      };

      // The default implementation pretty-prints JSON responses in development
      if (process.env.NODE_ENV === 'development') {
        app.set('json spaces', 2);
      }

      // the built in middleware is provided through an option in the configure function
      app.use(middleware.helmet());
      app.use(middleware.cors());
      app.use(middleware.compression());

      app.use(healthRouter);

      // you can add you your own middleware in here
      app.use(customMiddleware.logging());

      // here the routes that are registered by other plugins
      app.use(routes);

      // some other middleware that comes after the other routes
      app.use(middleware.notFound());
      app.use(middleware.error());
    },
  }),
);
```

Note that requests towards `/api/*` will never be handled by the `routes` handler unless a matching plugin exists, and will instead typically falling through to the `middleware.notFound()` handler. That is the case regardless of whether there is a configured `indexPath` or not.

The root HTTP Router service also allows for configuration of the underlying Node.js HTTP server object. This is useful for modifying settings on the HTTP server itself, such as server [timeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#servertimeout), [keepAliveTimeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#serverkeepalivetimeout), and [headersTimeout](https://nodejs.org/api/http.html#serverheaderstimeout).

A `applyDefaults` helper is also made available to use the default app/router configuration while still enabling custom server configuration

```ts
import { rootHttpRouterServiceFactory } from '@backstage/backend-app-api';

const backend = createBackend();

backend.add(
  rootHttpRouterServiceFactory({
    configure: ({ server, applyDefaults }) => {
      // apply default app/router configuration
      applyDefaults();

      // customize the Node.js HTTP Server timeouts
      server.keepAliveTimeout = 65 * 1000;
      server.headersTimeout = 66 * 1000;
    },
  }),
);
```
