docs/getting-started/config/database.md, before:

---
id: database
title: Database
description: How to set up PostgreSQL for your Backstage instance.
---

Audience: Admins

## Summary

This guide walks through how to set up a PostgreSQL database to host your Backstage data. It assumes you've already have a scaffolded Backstage app from following the [Creating your Backstage App](../index.md) guide.

By the end of this tutorial, you will have a working PostgreSQL database hooked up to your Backstage install.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes a basic understanding of working on a Linux based operating system and have some experience with the terminal, specifically, these commands: `apt-get`, `psql`, `yarn`.

- Access to a Linux-based operating system, such as Linux, MacOS or
  [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/)
- An account with elevated rights to install prerequisites on your operating
  system
- If the database is not hosted on the same server as the Backstage app, the
  PostgreSQL port needs to be accessible (the default is `5432` or `5433`)

## 1. Install and Configure PostgreSQL

:::tip Already configured your database?

If you've already installed PostgreSQL and created a schema and user, you can skip to [Step 2](#2-configuring-backstage-pg-client).

:::

Let's install PostgreSQL and get it set up for our Backstage app. First, we'll need to actually install the SQL server.

:::caution

The command below is for Linux. If you're not on Linux or having issues with package managers, check out [how to install PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) to help you get sorted.

:::

```shell
sudo apt-get install postgresql
```

To test if your database is working:

```shell
sudo -u postgres psql
```

You should see a very welcoming message, like:

```shell
psql (12.9 (Ubuntu 12.9-0ubuntu0.20.04.1))
Type "help" for help.

postgres=#
```

For this tutorial we're going to use the existing postgres user. The next step is to set the password for this user. You'll want to replace the `<secret>` with a real password in the command below. Keep note of the password you choose here, you'll need it later.

```shell
postgres=# ALTER USER postgres PASSWORD '<secret>';
```

That's enough database administration to get started. Type `\q`, followed by
pressing the enter key. Then again type `exit` and press enter. Next, you need
to install and configure the client.

## 2. Configuring Backstage `pg` Client

Use your favorite editor to open `app-config.yaml` and add your PostgreSQL configuration in the root directory of your Backstage app using the credentials from the previous steps.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    # highlight-remove-start
    client: better-sqlite3
    connection: ':memory:'
    # highlight-remove-end
    # highlight-add-start
    # config options: https://node-postgres.com/apis/client
    client: pg
    connection:
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
    # highlight-add-end
```

The `${...}` syntax denotes environment variables, specifically,

1. `POSTGRES_HOST` - The URL/IP to access your PostgreSQL database at. If you've installed PostgreSQL locally, this will likely be 127.0.0.1.
2. `POSTGRES_PORT` - The port to access your PostgreSQL database on. If you've installed PostgreSQL locally, this will be `5432` or `5433`.
3. `POSTGRES_USER` - The user from the SQL command above, `postgres`.
4. `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` - The password you set in the SQL command above.

When filling these out, you have 2 choices,

1. Use environment variables when you launch Backstage, either using an environment variable injector like [`dotenv-cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-cli) or [`env-cmd`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/env-cmd) or loading the variables directly with `EXPORT POSTGRES_...=...`.
2. Replacing the entire `${POSTGRES_...}` string with the value you identified earlier. This is the less secure option, but worth doing if you don't have much experience with environment variables.

:::danger

If you opt for the second option of replacing the entire string, take care to not commit your `app-config.yaml` to source control. It may contain passwords that you don't want leaked.

## Passwordless PostgreSQL in the Cloud

If you want to host your PostgreSQL server in the cloud with passwordless authentication, you can use Azure Database for PostgreSQL with Microsoft Entra authentication or Google Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL with Cloud IAM.

### Azure with Entra authentication

Remove `password` from the connection configuration and set `type` to `azure`. Optionally set `allowedClockSkewMs`. Entra authentication uses OAuth access tokens with expiration timestamps. By default, the database connector will get a new token 3 minutes (180,000 ms) before the prior token expires. If your server's clock may differ more than that from Azure, you can set another value here.

Entra authentication uses `DefaultAzureCredential` under the hood, so it supports [many credential types](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/javascript/sdk/authentication/credential-chains#use-defaultazurecredential-for-flexibility).

Set `user` to the display name of your Entra ID group, service principal, or managed identity. Set it to the user principal name if you're authenticating with a user's credentials.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    client: pg
    connection:
      # highlight-add-start
      type: azure
      allowedClockSkewMs: 180000
      # highlight-add-end
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      # highlight-remove-start
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      # highlight-remove-end
```

### Google with Cloud IAM

Remove `password` from the connection configuration and set `type` to `cloudsql`.

Under the hood, this implements [Automatic IAM Database Authentication](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-sql-nodejs-connector?tab=readme-ov-file#automatic-iam-database-authentication).

For an IAM user account, set `user` to the user's email address. For a service account, set `user` to the service account's email without the .gserviceaccount.com domain suffix.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    client: pg
    connection:
      # highlight-add-start
      type: cloudsql
      instance: my-project:region:my-instance
      # highlight-add-end
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      # highlight-remove-start
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      # highlight-remove-end
```

:::

[Start the Backstage app](../index.md#2-run-the-backstage-app):

```shell
yarn dev
```

After the Backstage frontend launches, you should notice that nothing has changed. This is a good sign. If everything is setup correctly above, this means that the data is flowing from the demo data files directly into your database!

We've now made your data persist in your Backstage database.

## Alternatives

You may not want to install Postgres locally, the following sections outline alternatives.

### Docker

You can run Postgres in a Docker container, this is great for local development or getting a Backstage POC up and running quickly, here's how:

First we need to pull down the container image, we'll use Postgres 17, check out the [Postgres Version Policy](../../overview/versioning-policy.md#postgresql-releases) to learn which versions are supported.

```shell
docker pull postgres:17.0-bookworm
```

Then we just need to start up the container.

```shell
docker run -d --name postgres --restart=always -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<secret> postgres:17.0-bookworm
```

This will run Postgres in the background for you, but remember to start it up again when you reboot your system.

### Docker Compose

Another way to run Postgres is to use Docker Compose, here's what that would look like:

```yaml title="docker-compose.local.yaml"
version: '4'

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:17.0-bookworm
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <secret>
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```

Then you would just run `docker compose -f docker-compose.local.yaml up` to start Postgres.

## Next Steps

We recommend you read [Setting up authentication](./authentication.md) next.

## Further Reading

If you want to read more about the database configuration, here are some helpful links:

- [Configuring Plugin Databases](../../tutorials/configuring-plugin-databases.md#privileges)
- [Read more about Knex](http://knexjs.org/), the database wrapper that we use.
- [Install `pgAdmin` 4](https://www.pgadmin.org/), a helpful tool for querying your database.

Commit message:

Support HumanDuration in config for the token renewal offset time
Signed-off-by: Mike Schenk <mike_schenk@yahoo.com>

docs/getting-started/config/database.md, after:

---
id: database
title: Database
description: How to set up PostgreSQL for your Backstage instance.
---

Audience: Admins

## Summary

This guide walks through how to set up a PostgreSQL database to host your Backstage data. It assumes you've already have a scaffolded Backstage app from following the [Creating your Backstage App](../index.md) guide.

By the end of this tutorial, you will have a working PostgreSQL database hooked up to your Backstage install.

## Prerequisites

This guide assumes a basic understanding of working on a Linux based operating system and have some experience with the terminal, specifically, these commands: `apt-get`, `psql`, `yarn`.

- Access to a Linux-based operating system, such as Linux, MacOS or
  [Windows Subsystem for Linux](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows/wsl/)
- An account with elevated rights to install prerequisites on your operating
  system
- If the database is not hosted on the same server as the Backstage app, the
  PostgreSQL port needs to be accessible (the default is `5432` or `5433`)

## 1. Install and Configure PostgreSQL

:::tip Already configured your database?

If you've already installed PostgreSQL and created a schema and user, you can skip to [Step 2](#2-configuring-backstage-pg-client).

:::

Let's install PostgreSQL and get it set up for our Backstage app. First, we'll need to actually install the SQL server.

:::caution

The command below is for Linux. If you're not on Linux or having issues with package managers, check out [how to install PostgreSQL](https://www.postgresql.org/download/) to help you get sorted.

:::

```shell
sudo apt-get install postgresql
```

To test if your database is working:

```shell
sudo -u postgres psql
```

You should see a very welcoming message, like:

```shell
psql (12.9 (Ubuntu 12.9-0ubuntu0.20.04.1))
Type "help" for help.

postgres=#
```

For this tutorial we're going to use the existing postgres user. The next step is to set the password for this user. You'll want to replace the `<secret>` with a real password in the command below. Keep note of the password you choose here, you'll need it later.

```shell
postgres=# ALTER USER postgres PASSWORD '<secret>';
```

That's enough database administration to get started. Type `\q`, followed by
pressing the enter key. Then again type `exit` and press enter. Next, you need
to install and configure the client.

## 2. Configuring Backstage `pg` Client

Use your favorite editor to open `app-config.yaml` and add your PostgreSQL configuration in the root directory of your Backstage app using the credentials from the previous steps.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    # highlight-remove-start
    client: better-sqlite3
    connection: ':memory:'
    # highlight-remove-end
    # highlight-add-start
    # config options: https://node-postgres.com/apis/client
    client: pg
    connection:
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
    # highlight-add-end
```

The `${...}` syntax denotes environment variables, specifically,

1. `POSTGRES_HOST` - The URL/IP to access your PostgreSQL database at. If you've installed PostgreSQL locally, this will likely be 127.0.0.1.
2. `POSTGRES_PORT` - The port to access your PostgreSQL database on. If you've installed PostgreSQL locally, this will be `5432` or `5433`.
3. `POSTGRES_USER` - The user from the SQL command above, `postgres`.
4. `POSTGRES_PASSWORD` - The password you set in the SQL command above.

When filling these out, you have 2 choices,

1. Use environment variables when you launch Backstage, either using an environment variable injector like [`dotenv-cli`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/dotenv-cli) or [`env-cmd`](https://www.npmjs.com/package/env-cmd) or loading the variables directly with `EXPORT POSTGRES_...=...`.
2. Replacing the entire `${POSTGRES_...}` string with the value you identified earlier. This is the less secure option, but worth doing if you don't have much experience with environment variables.

:::danger

If you opt for the second option of replacing the entire string, take care to not commit your `app-config.yaml` to source control. It may contain passwords that you don't want leaked.

## Passwordless PostgreSQL in the Cloud

If you want to host your PostgreSQL server in the cloud with passwordless authentication, you can use Azure Database for PostgreSQL with Microsoft Entra authentication or Google Cloud SQL for PostgreSQL with Cloud IAM.

### Azure with Entra authentication

Remove `password` from the connection configuration and set `type` to `azure`.

Optionally set `tokenRenewalOffsetTime`. Entra authentication uses OAuth access tokens with expiration timestamps. By default, the database connector will get a new token 5 minutes before the prior token expires. The value can be a string in the format of '1d', '2 seconds' etc. as supported by the `ms` library or it can be an object with individual units (in plural) as keys, e.g. `{ milliseconds: 2, seconds: 6, minutes: 3 }`.

Entra authentication uses `DefaultAzureCredential` under the hood, so it supports [many credential types](https://learn.microsoft.com/azure/developer/javascript/sdk/authentication/credential-chains#use-defaultazurecredential-for-flexibility).

Set `user` to the display name of your Entra ID group, service principal, or managed identity. Set it to the user principal name if you're authenticating with a user's credentials.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    client: pg
    connection:
      # highlight-add-start
      type: azure
      tokenRenewalOffsetTime: 5min
      # highlight-add-end
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      # highlight-remove-start
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      # highlight-remove-end
```

### Google with Cloud IAM

Remove `password` from the connection configuration and set `type` to `cloudsql`.

Under the hood, this implements [Automatic IAM Database Authentication](https://github.com/GoogleCloudPlatform/cloud-sql-nodejs-connector?tab=readme-ov-file#automatic-iam-database-authentication).

For an IAM user account, set `user` to the user's email address. For a service account, set `user` to the service account's email without the .gserviceaccount.com domain suffix.

```yaml title="app-config.yaml"
backend:
  database:
    client: pg
    connection:
      # highlight-add-start
      type: cloudsql
      instance: my-project:region:my-instance
      # highlight-add-end
      host: ${POSTGRES_HOST}
      port: ${POSTGRES_PORT}
      user: ${POSTGRES_USER}
      # highlight-remove-start
      password: ${POSTGRES_PASSWORD}
      # highlight-remove-end
```

:::

[Start the Backstage app](../index.md#2-run-the-backstage-app):

```shell
yarn dev
```

After the Backstage frontend launches, you should notice that nothing has changed. This is a good sign. If everything is setup correctly above, this means that the data is flowing from the demo data files directly into your database!

We've now made your data persist in your Backstage database.

## Alternatives

You may not want to install Postgres locally, the following sections outline alternatives.

### Docker

You can run Postgres in a Docker container, this is great for local development or getting a Backstage POC up and running quickly, here's how:

First we need to pull down the container image, we'll use Postgres 17, check out the [Postgres Version Policy](../../overview/versioning-policy.md#postgresql-releases) to learn which versions are supported.

```shell
docker pull postgres:17.0-bookworm
```

Then we just need to start up the container.

```shell
docker run -d --name postgres --restart=always -p 5432:5432 -e POSTGRES_PASSWORD=<secret> postgres:17.0-bookworm
```

This will run Postgres in the background for you, but remember to start it up again when you reboot your system.

### Docker Compose

Another way to run Postgres is to use Docker Compose, here's what that would look like:

```yaml title="docker-compose.local.yaml"
version: '4'

services:
  postgres:
    image: postgres:17.0-bookworm
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: postgres
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: <secret>
    ports:
      - 5432:5432
```

Then you would just run `docker compose -f docker-compose.local.yaml up` to start Postgres.

## Next Steps

We recommend you read [Setting up authentication](./authentication.md) next.

## Further Reading

If you want to read more about the database configuration, here are some helpful links:

- [Configuring Plugin Databases](../../tutorials/configuring-plugin-databases.md#privileges)
- [Read more about Knex](http://knexjs.org/), the database wrapper that we use.
- [Install `pgAdmin` 4](https://www.pgadmin.org/), a helpful tool for querying your database.
