plugins/playlist/README.md, before:

# Playlist Plugin

Welcome to the playlist plugin!

This plugin allows you to create, share, and follow custom collections of entities available in the Backstage catalog.

## Setup

The following sections will help you get the Playlist plugin setup and running

### Backend

You need to setup the [Playlist backend plugin](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/playlist-backend) before you move forward with any of these steps if you haven't already

### Installation

Install this plugin:

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/app add @backstage/plugin-playlist
```

### Add the plugin to your `packages/app`

Add the root page that the playlist plugin provides to your app. You can
choose any path for the route, but we recommend the following:

```diff
// packages/app/src/App.tsx
+import { PlaylistIndexPage } from '@backstage/plugin-playlist';


<FlatRoutes>
  <Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage />} />
  <Route path="/catalog/:namespace/:kind/:name" element={<CatalogEntityPage />}>
    {entityPage}
  </Route>
+  <Route path="/playlist" element={<PlaylistIndexPage />} />
  ...
</FlatRoutes>
```

You may also want to add a link to the playlist page to your application sidebar:

```diff
// packages/app/src/components/Root/Root.tsx
+import PlaylistPlayIcon from '@material-ui/icons/PlaylistPlay';

export const Root = ({ children }: PropsWithChildren<{}>) => (
  <SidebarPage>
    <Sidebar>
+      <SidebarItem icon={PlaylistPlayIcon} to="playlist" text="Playlists" />
      ...
    </Sidebar>
```

### Entity Pages

You can also make the following changes to add the playlist context menu to your `EntityPage.tsx`
to be able to add entities to playlists directly from your entity pages:

First we need to add the following imports:

```ts
import { EntityPlaylistDialog } from '@backstage/plugin-playlist';
import PlaylistAddIcon from '@material-ui/icons/PlaylistAdd';
```

Next we'll update the React import that looks like this:

```ts
import React from 'react';
```

To look like this:

```ts
import React, { ReactNode, useMemo, useState } from 'react';
```

Then we have to add this chunk of code after all the imports but before any of the other code:

```ts
const EntityLayoutWrapper = (props: { children?: ReactNode }) => {
  const [playlistDialogOpen, setPlaylistDialogOpen] = useState(false);

  const extraMenuItems = useMemo(() => {
    return [
      {
        title: 'Add to playlist',
        Icon: PlaylistAddIcon,
        onClick: () => setPlaylistDialogOpen(true),
      },
    ];
  }, []);

  return (
    <>
      <EntityLayout UNSTABLE_extraContextMenuItems={extraMenuItems}>
        {props.children}
      </EntityLayout>
      <EntityPlaylistDialog
        open={playlistDialogOpen}
        onClose={() => setPlaylistDialogOpen(false)}
      />
    </>
  );
};
```

The last step is to wrap all the entity pages in the `EntityLayoutWrapper` like this:

```diff
const defaultEntityPage = (
+  <EntityLayoutWrapper>
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/" title="Overview">
      {overviewContent}
    </EntityLayout.Route>

    <EntityLayout.Route path="/docs" title="Docs">
      <EntityTechdocsContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>

    <EntityLayout.Route path="/todos" title="TODOs">
      <EntityTodoContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>
+  </EntityLayoutWrapper>
);
```

Note: the above only shows an example for the `defaultEntityPage` for a full example of this you can look at [this EntityPage](../../packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx)

## Custom Group Noun

You can define your custom group noun to shown in all the components of the Playlist plugin in the UI. To do this you just need to add some config in your **app-config.yaml**, here's an example:

```yaml
playlist:
  groupPluralNoun: Collections
  groupSingularNoun: Collection
```

_You will always need the plural and the singular matching to have a consistency in the UI_

## Features

### View All Playlists

![View all playlists example](./docs/playlist-view-all.png)

### View Playlist

![View Playlist example](./docs/playlist-view-single.png)

### Create New Playlist

![Create New Playlist example](./docs/playlist-create-new.png)

### Add Entities to Playlist

![Add Entities to Playlist example](./docs/playlist-add-entities.png)

### Add to Playlist from Entity

![Add to Playlist from Entity example](./docs/playlist-add-from-entity.png)

## Links

- [playlist-backend](../playlist-backend) provides the backend API for this frontend.

Commit message:

[Playlist]feat: rename new config prop to title and use pluralize to manage nouns
Signed-off-by: antonio.bergas <anthonyprincedom@hotmail.com>

plugins/playlist/README.md, after:

# Playlist Plugin

Welcome to the playlist plugin!

This plugin allows you to create, share, and follow custom collections of entities available in the Backstage catalog.

## Setup

The following sections will help you get the Playlist plugin setup and running

### Backend

You need to setup the [Playlist backend plugin](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/plugins/playlist-backend) before you move forward with any of these steps if you haven't already

### Installation

Install this plugin:

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn --cwd packages/app add @backstage/plugin-playlist
```

### Add the plugin to your `packages/app`

Add the root page that the playlist plugin provides to your app. You can
choose any path for the route, but we recommend the following:

```diff
// packages/app/src/App.tsx
+import { PlaylistIndexPage } from '@backstage/plugin-playlist';


<FlatRoutes>
  <Route path="/catalog" element={<CatalogIndexPage />} />
  <Route path="/catalog/:namespace/:kind/:name" element={<CatalogEntityPage />}>
    {entityPage}
  </Route>
+  <Route path="/playlist" element={<PlaylistIndexPage />} />
  ...
</FlatRoutes>
```

You may also want to add a link to the playlist page to your application sidebar:

```diff
// packages/app/src/components/Root/Root.tsx
+import PlaylistPlayIcon from '@material-ui/icons/PlaylistPlay';

export const Root = ({ children }: PropsWithChildren<{}>) => (
  <SidebarPage>
    <Sidebar>
+      <SidebarItem icon={PlaylistPlayIcon} to="playlist" text="Playlists" />
      ...
    </Sidebar>
```

### Entity Pages

You can also make the following changes to add the playlist context menu to your `EntityPage.tsx`
to be able to add entities to playlists directly from your entity pages:

First we need to add the following imports:

```ts
import { EntityPlaylistDialog } from '@backstage/plugin-playlist';
import PlaylistAddIcon from '@material-ui/icons/PlaylistAdd';
```

Next we'll update the React import that looks like this:

```ts
import React from 'react';
```

To look like this:

```ts
import React, { ReactNode, useMemo, useState } from 'react';
```

Then we have to add this chunk of code after all the imports but before any of the other code:

```ts
const EntityLayoutWrapper = (props: { children?: ReactNode }) => {
  const [playlistDialogOpen, setPlaylistDialogOpen] = useState(false);

  const extraMenuItems = useMemo(() => {
    return [
      {
        title: 'Add to playlist',
        Icon: PlaylistAddIcon,
        onClick: () => setPlaylistDialogOpen(true),
      },
    ];
  }, []);

  return (
    <>
      <EntityLayout UNSTABLE_extraContextMenuItems={extraMenuItems}>
        {props.children}
      </EntityLayout>
      <EntityPlaylistDialog
        open={playlistDialogOpen}
        onClose={() => setPlaylistDialogOpen(false)}
      />
    </>
  );
};
```

The last step is to wrap all the entity pages in the `EntityLayoutWrapper` like this:

```diff
const defaultEntityPage = (
+  <EntityLayoutWrapper>
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/" title="Overview">
      {overviewContent}
    </EntityLayout.Route>

    <EntityLayout.Route path="/docs" title="Docs">
      <EntityTechdocsContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>

    <EntityLayout.Route path="/todos" title="TODOs">
      <EntityTodoContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>
+  </EntityLayoutWrapper>
);
```

Note: the above only shows an example for the `defaultEntityPage` for a full example of this you can look at [this EntityPage](../../packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx)

## Custom Title

You can define a custom title to be shown in all the components of this plugin to replace the default term "playlist" in the UI. To do this you just need to add some config in your **app-config.yaml**, here's an example:

```yaml
playlist:
  title: Collection
```

## Features

### View All Playlists

![View all playlists example](./docs/playlist-view-all.png)

### View Playlist

![View Playlist example](./docs/playlist-view-single.png)

### Create New Playlist

![Create New Playlist example](./docs/playlist-create-new.png)

### Add Entities to Playlist

![Add Entities to Playlist example](./docs/playlist-add-entities.png)

### Add to Playlist from Entity

![Add to Playlist from Entity example](./docs/playlist-add-from-entity.png)

## Links

- [playlist-backend](../playlist-backend) provides the backend API for this frontend.
