docs/auth/gitlab/provider.md, before:

---
id: provider
title: GitLab Authentication Provider
sidebar_label: GitLab
description: Adding GitLab OAuth as an authentication provider in Backstage
---

The Backstage `core-plugin-api` package comes with a GitLab authentication
provider that can authenticate users using GitLab OAuth.

## Create an OAuth App on GitLab

To support GitLab authentication, you must create an Application from the
[GitLab settings](https://gitlab.com/-/profile/applications). The `Redirect URI`
should point to your Backstage backend auth handler.

Settings for local development:

- Name: Backstage (or your custom app name)
- Redirect URI: `http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame`
- Scopes: `read_user` for sign-in. If you also need ID tokens (e.g. if you are
  using the Kubernetes plugin and have clusters with `authProvider: oidc` and
  [`oidcTokenProvider:
gitlab`](https://backstage.io/docs/features/kubernetes/configuration/#clustersoidctokenprovider-optional)),
  add the `openid` scope.

## Configuration

The provider configuration can then be added to your `app-config.yaml` under the
root `auth` configuration:

```yaml
auth:
  environment: development
  providers:
    gitlab:
      development:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
        ## uncomment if using self-hosted GitLab
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com
        ## uncomment if using a custom redirect URI
        # callbackUrl: https://${BASE_URL}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame
```

The GitLab provider is a structure with three configuration keys:

- `clientId`: The Application ID that you generated on GitLab, e.g.
  `4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`
- `clientSecret`: The Application secret
- `audience` (optional): The base URL for the self-hosted GitLab instance, e.g.
  `https://gitlab.company.com`
- `callbackUrl` (optional): The URL matching the Redirect URI registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, e.g.
  `https://$backstage.acme.corp/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame`
  Note: Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure there is no trailing `/` after 'frame' in the URL.

## Adding the provider to the Backstage frontend

To add the provider to the frontend, add the `gitlabAuthApi` reference and
`SignInPage` component as shown in
[Adding the provider to the sign-in page](../index.md#adding-the-provider-to-the-sign-in-page).

Commit message:

Add missing scopes to GitLab auth provider docs
closes #17189

The auth docs are missing some scopes required by the GitLab provider.
Without these scopes the RepoUrlPicker in software templates is unable
to retrieve oauth tokens for the user.

Signed-off-by: Daniel Schaaff <daniel@danielschaaff.com>

docs/auth/gitlab/provider.md, after:

---
id: provider
title: GitLab Authentication Provider
sidebar_label: GitLab
description: Adding GitLab OAuth as an authentication provider in Backstage
---

The Backstage `core-plugin-api` package comes with a GitLab authentication
provider that can authenticate users using GitLab OAuth.

## Create an OAuth App on GitLab

To support GitLab authentication, you must create an Application from the
[GitLab settings](https://gitlab.com/-/profile/applications). The `Redirect URI`
should point to your Backstage backend auth handler.

1. Set Application Name to `backstage-dev` or something along those lines.
2. The Authorization Callback URL should match the redirect URI set in Backstage.
   1. Set this to `http://localhost:7007/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame` for local development.
   2. Set this to `http://{APP_FQDN}:{APP_BACKEND_PORT}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame` for non-local deployments.
   3. Select the following scopes from the list:
      - [x] `read_user` Grants read-only access to the authenticated user's profile through the /user API endpoint, which includes username, public email, and full name. Also grants access to read-only API endpoints under /users.
      - [x] `read_repository` Grants read-only access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
      - [x] `write_repository` Grants read-write access to repositories on private projects using Git-over-HTTP (not using the API).
      - [x] `openid` Grants permission to authenticate with GitLab using OpenID Connect. Also gives read-only access to the user's profile and group memberships.
      - [x] `profile` Grants read-only access to the user's profile data using OpenID Connect.
      - [x] `email` Grants read-only access to the user's primary email address using OpenID Connect.

## Configuration

The provider configuration can then be added to your `app-config.yaml` under the
root `auth` configuration:

```yaml
auth:
  environment: development
  providers:
    gitlab:
      development:
        clientId: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_ID}
        clientSecret: ${AUTH_GITLAB_CLIENT_SECRET}
        ## uncomment if using self-hosted GitLab
        # audience: https://gitlab.company.com
        ## uncomment if using a custom redirect URI
        # callbackUrl: https://${BASE_URL}/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame
```

The GitLab provider is a structure with three configuration keys:

- `clientId`: The Application ID that you generated on GitLab, e.g.
  `4928c033ab3d592845c044a653bc20583baf84f2e67b954c6fdb32a532ab76c9`
- `clientSecret`: The Application secret
- `audience` (optional): The base URL for the self-hosted GitLab instance, e.g.
  `https://gitlab.company.com`
- `callbackUrl` (optional): The URL matching the Redirect URI registered when creating your GitLab OAuth App, e.g.
  `https://$backstage.acme.corp/api/auth/gitlab/handler/frame`
  Note: Due to a peculiarity with GitLab OAuth, ensure there is no trailing `/` after 'frame' in the URL.

## Adding the provider to the Backstage frontend

To add the provider to the frontend, add the `gitlabAuthApi` reference and
`SignInPage` component as shown in
[Adding the provider to the sign-in page](../index.md#adding-the-provider-to-the-sign-in-page).
