docs/features/search/README.md, before:

---
id: search-overview
title: Search Documentation
sidebar_label: Overview
# prettier-ignore
description: Backstage Search lets you find the right information you are looking for in the Backstage ecosystem.
---

# Backstage Search

## What is it?

Backstage Search lets you find the right information you are looking for in the
Backstage ecosystem.

## Features

- A federated, faceted search, searching across all entities registered in your
  Backstage instance.

- A search that lets you plug in your own search engine of choice.

- A standardized search API where you can choose to index other plugins data.

## Project roadmap

| Version                          | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Backstage Search Pre-Alpha ✅    | Search Frontend letting you search through the entities of the software catalog. [See Pre-Alpha Use Cases.](#backstage-search-pre-alpha)                               |
| Backstage Search Alpha ✅        | Basic “out-of-the-box” in-memory indexing process of entities, and their metadata, registered to the Software Catalog. [See Alpha Use Cases](#backstage-search-alpha). |
| [Backstage Search Beta ⌛][beta] | At least one production-ready search engine that supports the same use-cases as in the alpha. [See Beta Use Cases](#backstage-search-beta).                            |
| [Backstage Search GA ⌛][ga]     | A stable Search API for plugin developers to add search to their plugins, and app integrators to expose that to their users. [See GA Use Cases](#backstage-search-ga). |

[beta]: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/milestone/27
[ga]: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/milestone/28

## Use Cases

#### Backstage Search Pre-Alpha

The pre-alpha is intended to solve for the following user stories, but will get
there by means of a front-end only, non-extensible MVP.

- As a software engineer I should be able to navigate to a search page and
  search for entities registered in the Software Catalog.
- As a software engineer I should be able to use the search input field in the
  sidebar to search for entities registered in the Software Catalog.
- As a software engineer I should be able to see the number of results my search
  returned.
- As a software engineer I should be able to filter on metadata (kind,
  lifecycle) when I’ve performed a search.
- As a software engineer I should be able to hide the filters if I don’t need to
  use them.

#### Backstage Search Alpha

We will consider Backstage Search to be in alpha when the above use-cases are
met, but built on top of a flexible, extensible platform.

- As an integrator, I should be able to provide all of the pre-alpha experiences
  to my users if I choose, but also be able to customize the experience using a
  composable set of components.
- As a plugin developer, I should have a standard way to expose my plugin's data
  to Backstage Search.
- As an integrator, I should still be able to expose everything in the Software
  Catalog in search, but it should be possible to customize what is searchable.
- As an integrator, although I should be able to customize all of the above, it
  should be possible to have the pre-alpha user experiences covered without
  having to set up and configure a search engine.

#### Backstage Search Beta

We will consider Backstage Search to be in a beta phase when the above use-cases
are met, and can be deployed using a production-ready search engine.

- As an integrator, I should be able to power my Backstage Search experience
  (including querying and indexing) using a production-ready search engine like
  ElasticSearch.
- As an integrator, I should be able to configure the connection to my search
  engine in `app_config.yaml`.
- As an integrator, I should be able to tune the queries sent to my chosen
  search engine according to my organization's needs, but a sensible default
  query should be in place so that I am not required to do so.

#### Backstage Search GA

We will consider Backstage Search to be generally available (GA) when the above
use-cases are met, and an ecosystem of search-enabled plugins are available and
stable.

- As a plugin developer, there should be at least one example of a Backstage
  plugin that integrates with search that I can use as inspiration for my own
  plugin's search capabilities (for example, the TechDocs plugin).
- As an app integrator, there should be plenty of examples and documentation on
  how to customize and extend search in my Backstage instance to meet my
  organization's needs.

more to come...

## Search Engines Supported

See [Backstage Search Architecture](architecture.md) to get an overview of how
the search engines are used.

| Search Engines                                  | Support Status |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| [Lunr](./search-engines#lunr)                   | ✅             |
| [ElasticSearch](./search-engines#elasticsearch) | ✅             |
| [Postgres](./search-engines#postgres)           | ✅             |

[Reach out to us](#feedback) if you want to chat about support for more search
engines.

## Plugins Integrated with Search

| Plugin   | Support Status |
| -------- | -------------- |
| Catalog  | ✅             |
| TechDocs | Not yet ❌     |

## Tech Stack

| Stack           | Location                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Frontend Plugin | @backstage/plugin-search              |
| Backend Plugin  | @backstage/plugin-search-backend      |
| Indexer Plugin  | @backstage/plugin-search-backend-node |
| Common Code     | @backstage/search-common              |

## Get Involved

For any questions, feedback, or to help move search forward, reach out to us in
the `#search` channel of our
[Discord chatroom](https://github.com/backstage/backstage#community).

Commit message:

update list of supported plugins integrated to search
Signed-off-by: Emma Indal <emma.indahl@gmail.com>

docs/features/search/README.md, after:

---
id: search-overview
title: Search Documentation
sidebar_label: Overview
# prettier-ignore
description: Backstage Search lets you find the right information you are looking for in the Backstage ecosystem.
---

# Backstage Search

## What is it?

Backstage Search lets you find the right information you are looking for in the
Backstage ecosystem.

## Features

- A federated, faceted search, searching across all entities registered in your
  Backstage instance.

- A search that lets you plug in your own search engine of choice.

- A standardized search API where you can choose to index other plugins data.

## Project roadmap

| Version                          | Description                                                                                                                                                            |
| -------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| Backstage Search Pre-Alpha ✅    | Search Frontend letting you search through the entities of the software catalog. [See Pre-Alpha Use Cases.](#backstage-search-pre-alpha)                               |
| Backstage Search Alpha ✅        | Basic “out-of-the-box” in-memory indexing process of entities, and their metadata, registered to the Software Catalog. [See Alpha Use Cases](#backstage-search-alpha). |
| [Backstage Search Beta ⌛][beta] | At least one production-ready search engine that supports the same use-cases as in the alpha. [See Beta Use Cases](#backstage-search-beta).                            |
| [Backstage Search GA ⌛][ga]     | A stable Search API for plugin developers to add search to their plugins, and app integrators to expose that to their users. [See GA Use Cases](#backstage-search-ga). |

[beta]: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/milestone/27
[ga]: https://github.com/backstage/backstage/milestone/28

## Use Cases

#### Backstage Search Pre-Alpha

The pre-alpha is intended to solve for the following user stories, but will get
there by means of a front-end only, non-extensible MVP.

- As a software engineer I should be able to navigate to a search page and
  search for entities registered in the Software Catalog.
- As a software engineer I should be able to use the search input field in the
  sidebar to search for entities registered in the Software Catalog.
- As a software engineer I should be able to see the number of results my search
  returned.
- As a software engineer I should be able to filter on metadata (kind,
  lifecycle) when I’ve performed a search.
- As a software engineer I should be able to hide the filters if I don’t need to
  use them.

#### Backstage Search Alpha

We will consider Backstage Search to be in alpha when the above use-cases are
met, but built on top of a flexible, extensible platform.

- As an integrator, I should be able to provide all of the pre-alpha experiences
  to my users if I choose, but also be able to customize the experience using a
  composable set of components.
- As a plugin developer, I should have a standard way to expose my plugin's data
  to Backstage Search.
- As an integrator, I should still be able to expose everything in the Software
  Catalog in search, but it should be possible to customize what is searchable.
- As an integrator, although I should be able to customize all of the above, it
  should be possible to have the pre-alpha user experiences covered without
  having to set up and configure a search engine.

#### Backstage Search Beta

We will consider Backstage Search to be in a beta phase when the above use-cases
are met, and can be deployed using a production-ready search engine.

- As an integrator, I should be able to power my Backstage Search experience
  (including querying and indexing) using a production-ready search engine like
  ElasticSearch.
- As an integrator, I should be able to configure the connection to my search
  engine in `app_config.yaml`.
- As an integrator, I should be able to tune the queries sent to my chosen
  search engine according to my organization's needs, but a sensible default
  query should be in place so that I am not required to do so.

#### Backstage Search GA

We will consider Backstage Search to be generally available (GA) when the above
use-cases are met, and an ecosystem of search-enabled plugins are available and
stable.

- As a plugin developer, there should be at least one example of a Backstage
  plugin that integrates with search that I can use as inspiration for my own
  plugin's search capabilities (for example, the TechDocs plugin).
- As an app integrator, there should be plenty of examples and documentation on
  how to customize and extend search in my Backstage instance to meet my
  organization's needs.

more to come...

## Search Engines Supported

See [Backstage Search Architecture](architecture.md) to get an overview of how
the search engines are used.

| Search Engines                                  | Support Status |
| ----------------------------------------------- | -------------- |
| [Lunr](./search-engines#lunr)                   | ✅             |
| [ElasticSearch](./search-engines#elasticsearch) | ✅             |
| [Postgres](./search-engines#postgres)           | ✅             |

[Reach out to us](#feedback) if you want to chat about support for more search
engines.

## Plugins Integrated with Search

| Plugin   | Support Status |
| -------- | -------------- |
| Catalog  | ✅             |
| TechDocs | ✅             |

[Reach out to us](#feedback) if you want to chat about support for more plugins
integrated to search.

## Tech Stack

| Stack           | Location                              |
| --------------- | ------------------------------------- |
| Frontend Plugin | @backstage/plugin-search              |
| Backend Plugin  | @backstage/plugin-search-backend      |
| Indexer Plugin  | @backstage/plugin-search-backend-node |
| Common Code     | @backstage/search-common              |

## Get Involved

For any questions, feedback, or to help move search forward, reach out to us in
the `#search` channel of our
[Discord chatroom](https://github.com/backstage/backstage#community).
