plugins/github-actions/README.md, before:

# GitHub Actions Plugin

Website: [https://github.com/actions](https://github.com/actions)

## Screenshots

TBD

## Setup

### Generic Requirements

1. Provide OAuth credentials:
   1. [Create an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) in the GitHub organization with the callback URL set to `http://localhost:7007/api/auth/github/handler/frame`.
   2. Take the Client ID and Client Secret from the newly created app's settings page and put them into `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables.
2. Annotate your component with a correct GitHub Actions repository and owner:

   The annotation key is `github.com/project-slug`.

   Example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Component
   metadata:
     name: backstage
     description: backstage.io
     annotations:
       github.com/project-slug: 'backstage/backstage'
   spec:
     type: website
     lifecycle: production
     owner: user:guest
   ```

### Standalone app requirements

1. Install the plugin dependency in your Backstage app package:

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn add --cwd packages/app @backstage/plugin-github-actions
```

2. Add to the app `EntityPage` component:

```tsx
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  EntityGithubActionsContent,
  isGithubActionsAvailable,
} from '@backstage/plugin-github-actions';

// You can add the tab to any number of pages, the service page is shown as an
// example here
const serviceEntityPage = (
  <EntityLayout>
    {/* other tabs... */}
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/github-actions" title="GitHub Actions">
      <EntityGithubActionsContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>
```

3. Run the app with `yarn start` and the backend with `yarn start-backend`.
   Then navigate to `/github-actions/` under any entity.

## Features

- List workflow runs for a project
- Dive into one run to see a job steps
- Retry runs
- Pagination for runs

## Limitations

- There is a limit of 100 apps for one OAuth client/token pair
- The OAuth application must be at the GitHub organization level in order to display the workflows. If you do
  not see any workflows, confirm the OAuth application was created in the organization and not a specific user account.

Commit message:

feat(github-actions): add support for GHES hosted repos
Signed-off-by: Adam Letizia <LetiziaAdam@JohnDeere.com>

plugins/github-actions/README.md, after:

# GitHub Actions Plugin

Website: [https://github.com/actions](https://github.com/actions)

## Screenshots

TBD

## Setup

### Generic Requirements

1. Provide OAuth credentials:
   1. [Create an OAuth App](https://developer.github.com/apps/building-oauth-apps/creating-an-oauth-app/) in the GitHub organization with the callback URL set to `http://localhost:7007/api/auth/github/handler/frame`.
   2. Take the Client ID and Client Secret from the newly created app's settings page and put them into `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_ID` and `AUTH_GITHUB_CLIENT_SECRET` environment variables.
2. Annotate your component with a correct GitHub Actions repository and owner:

   The annotation key is `github.com/project-slug`.

   Example:

   ```yaml
   apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
   kind: Component
   metadata:
     name: backstage
     description: backstage.io
     annotations:
       github.com/project-slug: 'backstage/backstage'
   spec:
     type: website
     lifecycle: production
     owner: user:guest
   ```

### Standalone app requirements

1. Install the plugin dependency in your Backstage app package:

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn add --cwd packages/app @backstage/plugin-github-actions
```

2. Add to the app `EntityPage` component:

```tsx
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  EntityGithubActionsContent,
  isGithubActionsAvailable,
} from '@backstage/plugin-github-actions';

// You can add the tab to any number of pages, the service page is shown as an
// example here
const serviceEntityPage = (
  <EntityLayout>
    {/* other tabs... */}
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/github-actions" title="GitHub Actions">
      <EntityGithubActionsContent />
    </EntityLayout.Route>
```

3. Run the app with `yarn start` and the backend with `yarn start-backend`.
   Then navigate to `/github-actions/` under any entity.

### Self-hosted / Enterprise GitHub

The plugin will try to use `backstage.io/source-location` or `backstage.io/managed-by-location`
annotations to figure out the location of the source code.

1. Add the `host` and `apiBaseUrl` to your `app-config.yaml`

```yaml
# app-config.yaml

integrations:
  github:
    - host: 'your-github-host.com'
      apiBaseUrl: 'https://api.your-github-host.com'
```

## Features

- List workflow runs for a project
- Dive into one run to see a job steps
- Retry runs
- Pagination for runs

## Limitations

- There is a limit of 100 apps for one OAuth client/token pair
- The OAuth application must be at the GitHub organization level in order to display the workflows. If you do
  not see any workflows, confirm the OAuth application was created in the organization and not a specific user account.
