docs/plugins/index.md, before:

---
id: index
title: Introduction to Plugins
description: Learn about integrating various infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage through plugins.
---

Backstage orchestrates a cohesive single-page application by seamlessly integrating a diverse set of plugins.

Our vision for the plugin ecosystem champions flexibility, empowering you to incorporate a broad spectrum of infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage as plugins. Adherence to stringent [design guidelines](../dls/design.md) guarantees a consistent and intuitive user experience across the entire plugin landscape.

![Plugin Screenshot](../assets/plugins/my-plugin_screenshot.png)

## Creating a Plugin

Embark on your plugin development journey by following the detailed steps provided [here](create-a-plugin.md).

## Suggesting a Plugin

If you're developing an open-source plugin, we encourage you to initiate a [new Issue in the community plugins repo](https://github.com/backstage/community-plugins/issues/new/choose). This gesture not only informs the community about upcoming plugins but also invites collaboration and feedback.

This approach is equally beneficial if you conceive an idea for a potentially impactful plugin but prefer if another contributor undertakes its development.

## Integration with the Software Catalog

Should your plugin complement the Software Catalog rather than exist as a standalone entity (for instance, as an additional tab or a card within an "Overview" tab), you'll find comprehensive guidance on achieving this integration [here](integrating-plugin-into-software-catalog.md).

## Coming Soon: Table of Contents for "Backstage Integration Essentials: A Complete Guide to Plugin Development"

- **Guide Overview**
  - Purpose and Scope
  - Target Audience Insights
  - Navigation Tips
- **Foundation of Plugin Development**
  - Preparing Your Development Environment
  - Architectural Overview of Backstage
  - Building Your First Plugin: A Detailed Walkthrough
- **Plugin Architecture Deep Dive**
  - Exploring Frontend Components
  - Backend Services Uncovered
  - Facilitating Frontend-Backend Communication
- **Advanced Integration Techniques**
  - Proxy Integration for External APIs
  - Implementing Authentication and Authorization
  - External Systems and Database Integration
- **Deployment and Operational Excellence**
  - Strategies for Effective Deployment
  - Monitoring, Logging, and Performance Tuning
- **Adhering to Best Practices**
  - Code Organization and Modularity
  - Security Protocols
  - Engaging with the Backstage Community
- **Troubleshooting and Support**
  - Addressing Common Challenges
  - Debugging Strategies
  - Leveraging Community Support
- **Real-world Implementations and Lessons**
  - Case Studies
  - Community-Sourced Best Practices
- **Resource Compendium**
  - Glossary of Key Terms
  - Recommended Reading and Tools
- **Certification and Learning Pathways**

Stay tuned for in-depth exploration and guidance on each of these topics.

Commit message:

Linking glossary correctly per [comment](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/pull/23266#discussion_r1510003635)
Signed-off-by: markyjacksonfishing <marky.r.jackson@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: aramissennyeydd <aramis.sennyey@doordash.com>

docs/plugins/index.md, after:

---
id: index
title: Introduction to Plugins
description: Learn about integrating various infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage through plugins.
---

Backstage orchestrates a cohesive single-page application by seamlessly integrating a diverse set of plugins.

Our vision for the plugin ecosystem champions flexibility, empowering you to incorporate a broad spectrum of infrastructure and software development tools into Backstage as plugins. Adherence to stringent [design guidelines](../dls/design.md) guarantees a consistent and intuitive user experience across the entire plugin landscape.

![Plugin Screenshot](../assets/plugins/my-plugin_screenshot.png)

## Creating a Plugin

Embark on your plugin development journey by following the detailed steps provided [here](create-a-plugin.md).

## Suggesting a Plugin

If you're developing an open-source plugin, we encourage you to initiate a [new Issue in the community plugins repo](https://github.com/backstage/community-plugins/issues/new/choose). This gesture not only informs the community about upcoming plugins but also invites collaboration and feedback.

This approach is equally beneficial if you conceive an idea for a potentially impactful plugin but prefer if another contributor undertakes its development.

## Integration with the Software Catalog

Should your plugin complement the Software Catalog rather than exist as a standalone entity (for instance, as an additional tab or a card within an "Overview" tab), you'll find comprehensive guidance on achieving this integration [here](integrating-plugin-into-software-catalog.md).

## Coming Soon: Table of Contents for "Backstage Integration Essentials: A Complete Guide to Plugin Development"

- **Guide Overview**
  - Purpose and Scope
  - Target Audience Insights
  - Navigation Tips
- **Foundation of Plugin Development**
  - Preparing Your Development Environment
  - Architectural Overview of Backstage
  - Building Your First Plugin: A Detailed Walkthrough
- **Plugin Architecture Deep Dive**
  - Exploring Frontend Components
  - Backend Services Uncovered
  - Facilitating Frontend-Backend Communication
- **Advanced Integration Techniques**
  - Proxy Integration for External APIs
  - Implementing Authentication and Authorization
  - External Systems and Database Integration
- **Deployment and Operational Excellence**
  - Strategies for Effective Deployment
  - Monitoring, Logging, and Performance Tuning
- **Adhering to Best Practices**
  - Code Organization and Modularity
  - Security Protocols
  - Engaging with the Backstage Community
- **Troubleshooting and Support**
  - Addressing Common Challenges
  - Debugging Strategies
  - Leveraging Community Support
- **Real-world Implementations and Lessons**
  - Case Studies
  - Community-Sourced Best Practices
- **Resource Compendium**
  - Glossary of Key Terms: Expand your understanding of Backstage-related terminology by referring to the [official Backstage Glossary](https://backstage.io/docs/references/glossary).
  - Recommended Reading and Tools
- **Certification and Learning Pathways**

Stay tuned for in-depth exploration and guidance on each of these topics.
