plugins/jenkins/README.md, before:

# Jenkins Plugin (Alpha)

Website: [https://jenkins.io/](https://jenkins.io/)

<img src="./src/assets/last-master-build.png"  alt="Last master build"/>
<img src="./src/assets/folder-results.png"  alt="Folder results"/>
<img src="./src/assets/build-details.png"  alt="Build details"/>

## Setup

1. If you have a standalone app (you didn't clone this repo), then do

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn add --cwd packages/app @backstage/plugin-jenkins
```

2. Add and configure the [jenkins-backend](../jenkins-backend) plugin according to it's instructions

3. Add the `EntityJenkinsContent` extension to the `CI/CD` page and `EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard` to the `overview` page in the app (or wherever you'd prefer):

Note that if you configured a custom JenkinsInfoProvider in step 2, you may need a custom isJenkinsAvailable. Also if you're transitioning to a new default branch name, you can pass multiple branch names as a comma-separated list and it will check for each branch name.

```tsx
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  EntityJenkinsContent,
  EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard,
  isJenkinsAvailable,
} from '@backstage/plugin-jenkins';

// You can add the tab to any number of pages, the service page is shown as an
// example here
const serviceEntityPage = (
  <EntityLayout>
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/" title="Overview">
      {/* ... */}
      <EntitySwitch>
        <EntitySwitch.Case if={isJenkinsAvailable}>
          <Grid item sm={6}>
            <EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard
              branch="main,master"
              variant="gridItem"
            />
          </Grid>
        </EntitySwitch.Case>
        {/* ... */}
      </EntitySwitch>
    </EntityLayout.Route>
    {/* other tabs... */}
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/ci-cd" title="CI/CD">
      <EntitySwitch>
        <EntitySwitch.Case if={isJenkinsAvailable}>
          <EntityJenkinsContent />
        </EntitySwitch.Case>
        {/* ... */}
      </EntitySwitch>
    </EntityLayout.Route>
    {/* ... */}
  </EntityLayout>
);
```

4. Run app with `yarn start`
5. Add the Jenkins folder annotation to your `catalog-info.yaml`.

Currently, this plugin only supports folders and Git SCM.
Note that if you configured a custom JenkinsInfoProvider in step 2, you may need to use a different annotation scheme here

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: 'your-component'
  description: 'a description'
  annotations:
    jenkins.io/github-folder: 'folder-name/project-name'
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: your-name
```

7. Register your component

8. Click the component in the catalog. You should now see Jenkins builds, and a
   last build result for your master build.

## Features

- View all runs inside a folder
- Last build status for specified branch
- View summary of a build

## Limitations

- Only works with organization folder projects backed by GitHub
- No pagination support currently, limited to 50 projects - don't run this on a
  Jenkins instance with lots of builds

Commit message:

Configuration for action column in Jenkins table
Signed-off-by: Tim Soslow <tsoslow@shutterstock.com>

plugins/jenkins/README.md, after:

# Jenkins Plugin (Alpha)

Website: [https://jenkins.io/](https://jenkins.io/)

<img src="./src/assets/last-master-build.png"  alt="Last master build"/>
<img src="./src/assets/folder-results.png"  alt="Folder results"/>
<img src="./src/assets/build-details.png"  alt="Build details"/>

## Setup

1. If you have a standalone app (you didn't clone this repo), then do

```bash
# From your Backstage root directory
yarn add --cwd packages/app @backstage/plugin-jenkins
```

2. Add and configure the [jenkins-backend](../jenkins-backend) plugin according to it's instructions

3. Add the `EntityJenkinsContent` extension to the `CI/CD` page and `EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard` to the `overview` page in the app (or wherever you'd prefer):

Note that if you configured a custom JenkinsInfoProvider in step 2, you may need a custom isJenkinsAvailable. Also if you're transitioning to a new default branch name, you can pass multiple branch names as a comma-separated list and it will check for each branch name.

```tsx
// In packages/app/src/components/catalog/EntityPage.tsx
import {
  EntityJenkinsContent,
  EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard,
  isJenkinsAvailable,
} from '@backstage/plugin-jenkins';

// You can add the tab to any number of pages, the service page is shown as an
// example here
const serviceEntityPage = (
  <EntityLayout>
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/" title="Overview">
      {/* ... */}
      <EntitySwitch>
        <EntitySwitch.Case if={isJenkinsAvailable}>
          <Grid item sm={6}>
            <EntityLatestJenkinsRunCard
              branch="main,master"
              variant="gridItem"
            />
          </Grid>
        </EntitySwitch.Case>
        {/* ... */}
      </EntitySwitch>
    </EntityLayout.Route>
    {/* other tabs... */}
    <EntityLayout.Route path="/ci-cd" title="CI/CD">
      <EntitySwitch>
        <EntitySwitch.Case if={isJenkinsAvailable}>
          <EntityJenkinsContent />
        </EntitySwitch.Case>
        {/* ... */}
      </EntitySwitch>
    </EntityLayout.Route>
    {/* ... */}
  </EntityLayout>
);
```

4. Run app with `yarn start`
5. Add the Jenkins folder annotation to your `catalog-info.yaml`.

Currently, this plugin only supports folders and Git SCM.
Note that if you configured a custom JenkinsInfoProvider in step 2, you may need to use a different annotation scheme here

```yaml
apiVersion: backstage.io/v1alpha1
kind: Component
metadata:
  name: 'your-component'
  description: 'a description'
  annotations:
    jenkins.io/github-folder: 'folder-name/project-name'
spec:
  type: service
  lifecycle: experimental
  owner: your-name
```

7. Register your component

8. Click the component in the catalog. You should now see Jenkins builds, and a
   last build result for your master build.

## Customize Action

You can customize the action in the CI/CD table.

| Action            | Description             |
| ----------------- | ----------------------- |
| rebuild (default) | Run new build with API  |
| view              | link to view build page |
| replay            | link to start replay    |

```yaml
jenkinsPlugin.__experimentalReconfigure({
  tableAction: 'view',
});
```

<img src="./src/assets/customize_action_view.png"  alt="Customized action - view"/>

## Features

- View all runs inside a folder
- Last build status for specified branch
- View summary of a build

## Limitations

- Only works with organization folder projects backed by GitHub
- No pagination support currently, limited to 50 projects - don't run this on a
  Jenkins instance with lots of builds
