docs/tooling/cli/04-templates.md, before:

---
id: templates
title: CLI Templates
description: Overview of the new CLI Declarative Templates
---

The behavior of the `backstage-cli new` command is configurable through your root `package.json`, and you can also create and add custom CLI templates to suit your needs.

## Basic Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "globals": {
          "license": "MIT",
          "namePrefix": "@my-org/"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- `globals` - Configures input for all generated packages and plugins.
  - `version` - Sets the value of the `version` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `Apache-2.0`.
  - `license` - Sets the value of the `license` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `0.1.0`.
  - `private` - Sets the value of the `private` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `true`.
  - `publishRegistry` - Sets the value of the `publishConfig.registry` field in `package.json` of all generated packages.
  - `namePrefix` - The prefix used to generate the full package name. Defaults to `@internal/`.
  - `namePluginInfix` - The infix used to generate the full package name for plugin packages. Defaults to `plugin-`.
- `templates` - Specifies custom templates.
  - See [Installing custom templates](#installing-custom-templates) and [Creating your own CLI templates](#creating-your-own-cli-templates) for more information.

The generated package name is based on the `namePrefix` and `namePluginInfix` globals, as well as the "base name" which is derived from the package role and user input. For plugin packages the final package name will be `<namePrefix><namePluginInfix><baseName>`, and for other packages it will be `<namePrefix><baseName>`.

For example, if you want your plugin frontend packages to end up with the name `@acme/backstage-plugin-<pluginId>`, you should use the following configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "globals": {
          "namePrefix": "@acme/",
          "namePluginInfix": "backstage-plugin-"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Installing custom templates

Custom templates can be installed from local directories. To install a template you add it to the `backstage.cli.new.templates` configuration array in your root `package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "templates": ["./templates/custom-plugin.yaml"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Each entry in the `templates` array should be relative path that points either directly to a template YAML file or a directory containing a `template.yaml` file. If the path starts with `./` it will be use as is, otherwise it will be resolved as a module within `node_modules`.

When defining the `templates` array it will override the default set of templates. If you want to keep using and of the build-in templates in the Backstage CLI you can reference them directly within the CLI package. This following is the full list of built-in templates:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "templates": [
          "@backstage/cli/templates/frontend-plugin",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/backend-plugin",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/backend-plugin-module",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-web-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-node-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-common-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/web-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/node-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/scaffolder-backend-module"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Creating your own CLI templates

Your first step in creating your own CLI template is composing your yaml file:

```yaml title="in templates/custom-plugin.yaml"
name: custom-plugin
role: frontend-plugin
description: Description of my CLI template # optional
templateValues: # optional
  pluginVar: '{{ camelCase pluginId }}Plugin'
```

The following properties are supported:

- `name` **(required)** - The name of your template, used by the user to select it.
- `role` **(required)** - The role of the template, similar to package role. See [Template Roles](#template-roles) for more details.
- `description` - A description of the type of package that this template produces.
- `parameters` - A map of pre-filled parameters that will be used instead of prompting the user for input.
- `templateValues` - A map of additional values that will be present during templating. The values are themselves templated and can reference other values.

Once you have your composed template yaml file, [add your new template](#installing-custom-templates) to the CLI config in your root `package.json`:

```diff
{
  // ...
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
+       "templates": [
+         "./templates/custom-plugin.yaml"
+       ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you'd like to see more examples, you can find all the default templates and its yaml files [here](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/packages/cli/templates).

### Template Roles

The `role` property in the template yaml file is used to determine what input will be gathered for the template, as well as what actions will be taken after the new package has been created. The following roles are supported:

| Role                     | Prompts                | Output Directory | Additional Actions                                                                |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------- | :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `frontend-plugin`        | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/app` and entry to `packages/backend/src/App.tsx`      |
| `frontend-plugin-module` | `pluginId`, `moduleId` | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/app`                                                  |
| `backend-plugin`         | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/backend` and entry to `packages/backend/src/index.ts` |
| `backend-plugin-module`  | `pluginId`, `moduleId` | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/backend` and entry to `packages/backend/src/index.ts` |
| `web-library`            | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `node-library`           | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `common-library`         | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-web-library`     | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-node-library`    | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-common-library`  | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |

Commit message:

cli/new: merge parameters and templateValues
Signed-off-by: Patrik Oldsberg <poldsberg@gmail.com>
Signed-off-by: Sayyid Yofa <sayyidyofa@gmail.com>

docs/tooling/cli/04-templates.md, after:

---
id: templates
title: CLI Templates
description: Overview of the new CLI Declarative Templates
---

The behavior of the `backstage-cli new` command is configurable through your root `package.json`, and you can also create and add custom CLI templates to suit your needs.

## Basic Configuration

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "globals": {
          "license": "MIT",
          "namePrefix": "@my-org/"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

- `globals` - Configures input for all generated packages and plugins.
  - `version` - Sets the value of the `version` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `Apache-2.0`.
  - `license` - Sets the value of the `license` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `0.1.0`.
  - `private` - Sets the value of the `private` field in `package.json` of all generated packages. Defaults to `true`.
  - `publishRegistry` - Sets the value of the `publishConfig.registry` field in `package.json` of all generated packages.
  - `namePrefix` - The prefix used to generate the full package name. Defaults to `@internal/`.
  - `namePluginInfix` - The infix used to generate the full package name for plugin packages. Defaults to `plugin-`.
- `templates` - Specifies custom templates.
  - See [Installing custom templates](#installing-custom-templates) and [Creating your own CLI templates](#creating-your-own-cli-templates) for more information.

The generated package name is based on the `namePrefix` and `namePluginInfix` globals, as well as the "base name" which is derived from the package role and user input. For plugin packages the final package name will be `<namePrefix><namePluginInfix><baseName>`, and for other packages it will be `<namePrefix><baseName>`.

For example, if you want your plugin frontend packages to end up with the name `@acme/backstage-plugin-<pluginId>`, you should use the following configuration:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "globals": {
          "namePrefix": "@acme/",
          "namePluginInfix": "backstage-plugin-"
        }
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Installing custom templates

Custom templates can be installed from local directories. To install a template you add it to the `backstage.cli.new.templates` configuration array in your root `package.json`:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "templates": ["./templates/custom-plugin.yaml"]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

Each entry in the `templates` array should be relative path that points either directly to a template YAML file or a directory containing a `template.yaml` file. If the path starts with `./` it will be use as is, otherwise it will be resolved as a module within `node_modules`.

When defining the `templates` array it will override the default set of templates. If you want to keep using and of the build-in templates in the Backstage CLI you can reference them directly within the CLI package. This following is the full list of built-in templates:

```json
{
  "name": "root",
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
        "templates": [
          "@backstage/cli/templates/frontend-plugin",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/backend-plugin",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/backend-plugin-module",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-web-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-node-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/plugin-common-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/web-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/node-library",
          "@backstage/cli/templates/scaffolder-backend-module"
        ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

## Creating your own CLI templates

Your first step in creating your own CLI template is composing your yaml file:

```yaml title="in templates/custom-plugin.yaml"
name: custom-plugin
role: frontend-plugin
description: Description of my CLI template # optional
values: # optional
  pluginVar: '{{ camelCase pluginId }}Plugin'
```

The following properties are supported:

- `name` **(required)** - The name of your template, used by the user to select it.
- `role` **(required)** - The role of the template, similar to package role. See [Template Roles](#template-roles) for more details.
- `description` - A description of the type of package that this template produces.
- `values` - A map of additional values that will be present during templating. The values are themselves templated and can reference other values. If the key matches any of the user prompts, such as `pluginId`, the value will be used directly instead of prompting the user.

Once you have your composed template yaml file, [add your new template](#installing-custom-templates) to the CLI config in your root `package.json`:

```diff
{
  // ...
  "backstage": {
    "cli": {
      "new": {
+       "templates": [
+         "./templates/custom-plugin.yaml"
+       ]
      }
    }
  }
}
```

If you'd like to see more examples, you can find all the default templates and its yaml files [here](https://github.com/backstage/backstage/tree/master/packages/cli/templates).

### Template Roles

The `role` property in the template yaml file is used to determine what input will be gathered for the template, as well as what actions will be taken after the new package has been created. The following roles are supported:

| Role                     | Prompts                | Output Directory | Additional Actions                                                                |
| :----------------------- | :--------------------- | :--------------- | :-------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| `frontend-plugin`        | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/app` and entry to `packages/backend/src/App.tsx`      |
| `frontend-plugin-module` | `pluginId`, `moduleId` | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/app`                                                  |
| `backend-plugin`         | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/backend` and entry to `packages/backend/src/index.ts` |
| `backend-plugin-module`  | `pluginId`, `moduleId` | `plugins`        | Add dependency to `packages/backend` and entry to `packages/backend/src/index.ts` |
| `web-library`            | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `node-library`           | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `common-library`         | `name`                 | `packages`       | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-web-library`     | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-node-library`    | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |
| `plugin-common-library`  | `pluginId`             | `plugins`        | none                                                                              |
