docs/local-dev/cli-commands.md, before:

---
id: cli-commands
title: Commands
description: Descriptions of all commands available in the CLI.
---

This page lists all commands provided by the Backstage CLI, what they're for,
and where to use them.

## help

This command displays a help summary or detailed help screens for each command.
Below is a cleaned up output of `yarn backstage-cli --help`

```text
repo [command]        Command that run across an entire Backstage project
package [command]     Lifecycle scripts for individual packages
migrate [command]     Migration utilities

create                Open up an interactive guide to creating new things in your app

config:docs           Browse the configuration reference documentation
config:print          Print the app configuration for the current package
config:check          Validate that the given configuration loads and matches schema
config:schema         Dump the app configuration schema

versions:bump         Bump Backstage packages to the latest versions
versions:check        Check Backstage package versioning

build-workspace       Builds a temporary dist workspace from the provided packages
create-github-app     Create new GitHub App in your organization (experimental)

info                  Show helpful information for debugging and reporting bugs
help [command]        display help for command
```

The `package` command category, `yarn backstage-cli package --help`

```text
start [options]       Start a package for local development
build [options]       Build a package for production deployment or publishing
lint [options]        Lint a package
test                  Run tests, forwarding args to Jest, defaulting to watch mode
clean                 Delete cache directories
prepack               Prepares a package for packaging before publishing
postpack              Restores the changes made by the prepack command
```

The `repo` command category, `yarn backstage-cli repo --help`

```text
build [options]       Build packages in the project, excluding bundled app and backend packages.
lint [options]        Lint all packages in the project
```

The `migrate` command category, `yarn backstage-cli migrate --help`

```text
package-roles         Add package role field to packages that don't have it
package-scripts       Set package scripts according to each package role
package-lint-configs  Migrates all packages to use @backstage/cli/config/eslint-factory
```

## repo build

Builds all packages in the project, excluding bundled packages by default, i.e. ones
with the role `'frontend'` or `'backend'`.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli repo build [options]

Build packages in the project, excluding bundled app and backend packages.

Options:
  --all          Build all packages, including bundled app and backend packages.
  --since <ref>  Only build packages and their dev dependents that changed since the specified ref
```

## repo lint

Lint all packages in the project.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli repo lint [options]

Lint all packages in the project

Options:
  --format <format>  Lint report output format (default: "eslint-formatter-friendly")
  --since <ref>      Only lint packages that changed since the specified ref
  --fix              Attempt to automatically fix violations
```

## package start

Starts the package for local development. See the frontend and backend development parts in the build system [bundling](./cli-build-system.md#bundling) section for more details.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package start [options]

Start a package for local development

Options:
  --config <path>  Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  --role <name>    Run the command with an explicit package role
  --check          Enable type checking and linting if available
  --inspect        Enable debugger in Node.js environments
  --inspect-brk    Enable debugger in Node.js environments, breaking before code starts
```

## package build

Build an individual package based on its role. See the build system [building](./cli-build-system.md#building) and [bundling](./cli-build-system.md#bundling) sections for more details.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package build [options]

Build a package for production deployment or publishing

Options:
  --role <name>              Run the command with an explicit package role
  --minify                   Minify the generated code. Does not apply to app or backend packages.
  --skip-build-dependencies  Skip the automatic building of local dependencies. Applies to backend packages only.
  --stats                    If bundle stats are available, write them to the output directory. Applies to app packages only.
  --config <path>            Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml. Applies to app packages only. (default: [])
```

## package lint

Lint a package. In addition to the default `eslint` behavior, this command will
include TypeScript files, treat warnings as errors, and default to linting the
entire directory if no specific files are listed. For more information, see the
build system [linting](./cli-build-system.md#linting) section.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package lint [options]

Lint a package

Options:
  --format <format>  Lint report output format (default: "eslint-formatter-friendly")
  --fix              Attempt to automatically fix violations
```

## package test

Run tests, forwarding all unknown options to Jest, and defaulting to watch mode.
When executing the tests, `process.env.NODE_ENV` will be set to `"test"`.

This command uses a default Jest configuration that is included in the CLI,
which is set up with similar goals for speed, scale, and working within a
monorepo. The configuration sets the `src` as the root directory, enforces the
`.test.` infix for tests, and uses `src/setupTests.ts` as the test setup
location. The included configuration also supports test execution at the root of
a yarn workspaces monorepo by automatically creating one grouped configuration
that includes all packages that have `backstage-cli test` in their package
`test` script.

For more information about configuration overrides and editor support, see the [Jest Configuration section](./cli-build-system.md#jest-configuration) in the build system documentation.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package test [options]

Run tests, forwarding args to Jest, defaulting to watch mode

Options:
  --backstage-cli-help    display help for command
```

## package clean

Remove cache and output directories.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package clean [options]

Delete cache directories
```

## package prepack

This command should be added as `scripts.prepack` in all packages. It enables
packaging- and publish-time overrides for fields inside `packages.json`.
For more details, see the build system [publishing](./cli-build-system.md#publishing) section.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package prepack [options]

Prepares a package for packaging before publishing
```

## package postpack

This should be added as `scripts.postpack` in all packages. It restores
`package.json` to what it looked like before calling the `prepack` command.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package postpack [options]

Restores the changes made by the prepack command
```

## new

The `new` command opens up an interactive guide for you to create new things
in your app. If you do not pass in any options it is completely interactive, but
it is possible to pre-select what you want to create using the `--select` flag,
and provide options using `--option`, for example:

```bash
backstage-cli new --select plugin --option id=foo
```

This command is typically added as script in the root `package.json` to be
executed with `yarn new`, using options that are appropriate for the organization
that owns the app repo. For example you may have it set up like this:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "new": "backstage-cli new --scope internal --no-private --npm-registry https://acme.org/npm"
  }
}
```

```text
Usage: backstage-cli create [options]

Options:
  --select <name>          Select the thing you want to be creating upfront
  --option <name>=<value>  Pre-fill options for the creation process (default: [])
  --scope <scope>          The scope to use for new packages
  --npm-registry <URL>     The package registry to use for new packages
  --no-private             Do not mark new packages as private
  -h, --help               display help for command
```

## config:docs

This commands opens up the reference documentation of your apps local
configuration schema in the browser. This is useful to get an overview of what
configuration values are available to use, a description of what they do and
their format, and where they get sent.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:docs [options]

Browse the configuration reference documentation

Options:
  --package <name>  Only include the schema that applies to the given package
  -h, --help        display help for command
```

## config:print

Print the static configuration, defaulting to reading `app-config.yaml` in the
repo root, using schema collected from all local packages in the repo.

For example, to validate that a given configuration value is visible in the
frontend when building the `my-app` package, you can use the following:

```bash
yarn backstage-cli config:print --frontend --package my-app
```

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:print [options]

Options:
  --package <name>   Only load config schema that applies to the given package
  --lax              Do not require environment variables to be set
  --frontend         Print only the frontend configuration
  --with-secrets     Include secrets in the printed configuration
  --format <format>  Format to print the configuration in, either json or yaml [yaml]
  --config <path>    Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  -h, --help         display help for command
```

## config:check

Validate that static configuration loads and matches schema, defaulting to
reading `app-config.yaml` in the repo root and using schema collected from all
local packages in the repo.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:check [options]

Options:
  --package <name>  Only load config schema that applies to the given package
  --lax             Do not require environment variables to be set
  --frontend        Only validate the frontend configuration
  --deprecated      List all deprecated configuration settings
  --config <path>   Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  -h, --help        display help for command
```

## config:schema

Dump the configuration schema that was collected from all local packages in the
repo.

Note: when run by `yarn`, supply the yarn option `--silent` if you are using the
output in a command line pipe to avoid non schema output in the pipeline.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:schema [options]

Print configuration schema

Options:
  --package <name>   Only output config schema that applies to the given package
  --format <format>  Format to print the schema in, either json or yaml [yaml]
  -h, --help         display help for command
```

## versions:bump

Bump all `@backstage` packages to the latest versions. This checks for updates
in the package registry, and will update entries both in `yarn.lock` and
`package.json` files when necessary.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli versions:bump [options]

Options:
  -h, --help        display help for command
  --pattern <glob>  Override glob for matching packages to upgrade
  --release <version|next|main> Bump to a specific Backstage release line or version (default: "main")
```

## versions:check

Validate `@backstage` dependencies within the repo, making sure that there are
no duplicates of packages that might lead to breakages.

By supplying the `--fix` flag the command will attempt to fix any conflict that
can be resolved by editing `yarn.lock`, but will not attempt to search for
remote updates or modify any `package.json` files.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli versions:check [options]

Options:
  --fix       Fix any auto-fixable versioning problems
  -h, --help  display help for command
```

## build-workspace

Builds a mirror of the workspace using the packaged production version of each
package. This essentially calls `yarn pack` in each included package and unpacks
the resulting archive in the target `workspace-dir`.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli build-workspace [options] <workspace-dir>
```

## create-github-app

Creates a GitHub App in your GitHub organization. This is an alternative to
token-based [GitHub integration](../integrations/github/locations.md). See
[GitHub Apps for Backstage Authentication](../integrations/github/github-apps.md).

Launches a browser to create the App through GitHub and saves the result as a
YAML file that can be referenced in the GitHub integration configuration.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli create-github-app <github-org>
```

## info

Outputs debug information which is useful when opening an issue. Outputs system
information, node.js and npm versions, CLI version and type (inside backstage
repo or a created app), all `@backstage/*` package dependency versions.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli info
```

Commit message:

Enable strict checking of config during CLI.
Signed-off-by: Aramis Sennyey <sennyeya@amazon.com>

docs/local-dev/cli-commands.md, after:

---
id: cli-commands
title: Commands
description: Descriptions of all commands available in the CLI.
---

This page lists all commands provided by the Backstage CLI, what they're for,
and where to use them.

## help

This command displays a help summary or detailed help screens for each command.
Below is a cleaned up output of `yarn backstage-cli --help`

```text
repo [command]        Command that run across an entire Backstage project
package [command]     Lifecycle scripts for individual packages
migrate [command]     Migration utilities

create                Open up an interactive guide to creating new things in your app

config:docs           Browse the configuration reference documentation
config:print          Print the app configuration for the current package
config:check          Validate that the given configuration loads and matches schema
config:schema         Dump the app configuration schema

versions:bump         Bump Backstage packages to the latest versions
versions:check        Check Backstage package versioning

build-workspace       Builds a temporary dist workspace from the provided packages
create-github-app     Create new GitHub App in your organization (experimental)

info                  Show helpful information for debugging and reporting bugs
help [command]        display help for command
```

The `package` command category, `yarn backstage-cli package --help`

```text
start [options]       Start a package for local development
build [options]       Build a package for production deployment or publishing
lint [options]        Lint a package
test                  Run tests, forwarding args to Jest, defaulting to watch mode
clean                 Delete cache directories
prepack               Prepares a package for packaging before publishing
postpack              Restores the changes made by the prepack command
```

The `repo` command category, `yarn backstage-cli repo --help`

```text
build [options]       Build packages in the project, excluding bundled app and backend packages.
lint [options]        Lint all packages in the project
```

The `migrate` command category, `yarn backstage-cli migrate --help`

```text
package-roles         Add package role field to packages that don't have it
package-scripts       Set package scripts according to each package role
package-lint-configs  Migrates all packages to use @backstage/cli/config/eslint-factory
```

## repo build

Builds all packages in the project, excluding bundled packages by default, i.e. ones
with the role `'frontend'` or `'backend'`.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli repo build [options]

Build packages in the project, excluding bundled app and backend packages.

Options:
  --all          Build all packages, including bundled app and backend packages.
  --since <ref>  Only build packages and their dev dependents that changed since the specified ref
```

## repo lint

Lint all packages in the project.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli repo lint [options]

Lint all packages in the project

Options:
  --format <format>  Lint report output format (default: "eslint-formatter-friendly")
  --since <ref>      Only lint packages that changed since the specified ref
  --fix              Attempt to automatically fix violations
```

## package start

Starts the package for local development. See the frontend and backend development parts in the build system [bundling](./cli-build-system.md#bundling) section for more details.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package start [options]

Start a package for local development

Options:
  --config <path>  Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  --role <name>    Run the command with an explicit package role
  --check          Enable type checking and linting if available
  --inspect        Enable debugger in Node.js environments
  --inspect-brk    Enable debugger in Node.js environments, breaking before code starts
```

## package build

Build an individual package based on its role. See the build system [building](./cli-build-system.md#building) and [bundling](./cli-build-system.md#bundling) sections for more details.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package build [options]

Build a package for production deployment or publishing

Options:
  --role <name>              Run the command with an explicit package role
  --minify                   Minify the generated code. Does not apply to app or backend packages.
  --skip-build-dependencies  Skip the automatic building of local dependencies. Applies to backend packages only.
  --stats                    If bundle stats are available, write them to the output directory. Applies to app packages only.
  --config <path>            Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml. Applies to app packages only. (default: [])
```

## package lint

Lint a package. In addition to the default `eslint` behavior, this command will
include TypeScript files, treat warnings as errors, and default to linting the
entire directory if no specific files are listed. For more information, see the
build system [linting](./cli-build-system.md#linting) section.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package lint [options]

Lint a package

Options:
  --format <format>  Lint report output format (default: "eslint-formatter-friendly")
  --fix              Attempt to automatically fix violations
```

## package test

Run tests, forwarding all unknown options to Jest, and defaulting to watch mode.
When executing the tests, `process.env.NODE_ENV` will be set to `"test"`.

This command uses a default Jest configuration that is included in the CLI,
which is set up with similar goals for speed, scale, and working within a
monorepo. The configuration sets the `src` as the root directory, enforces the
`.test.` infix for tests, and uses `src/setupTests.ts` as the test setup
location. The included configuration also supports test execution at the root of
a yarn workspaces monorepo by automatically creating one grouped configuration
that includes all packages that have `backstage-cli test` in their package
`test` script.

For more information about configuration overrides and editor support, see the [Jest Configuration section](./cli-build-system.md#jest-configuration) in the build system documentation.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package test [options]

Run tests, forwarding args to Jest, defaulting to watch mode

Options:
  --backstage-cli-help    display help for command
```

## package clean

Remove cache and output directories.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package clean [options]

Delete cache directories
```

## package prepack

This command should be added as `scripts.prepack` in all packages. It enables
packaging- and publish-time overrides for fields inside `packages.json`.
For more details, see the build system [publishing](./cli-build-system.md#publishing) section.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package prepack [options]

Prepares a package for packaging before publishing
```

## package postpack

This should be added as `scripts.postpack` in all packages. It restores
`package.json` to what it looked like before calling the `prepack` command.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli package postpack [options]

Restores the changes made by the prepack command
```

## new

The `new` command opens up an interactive guide for you to create new things
in your app. If you do not pass in any options it is completely interactive, but
it is possible to pre-select what you want to create using the `--select` flag,
and provide options using `--option`, for example:

```bash
backstage-cli new --select plugin --option id=foo
```

This command is typically added as script in the root `package.json` to be
executed with `yarn new`, using options that are appropriate for the organization
that owns the app repo. For example you may have it set up like this:

```json
{
  "scripts": {
    "new": "backstage-cli new --scope internal --no-private --npm-registry https://acme.org/npm"
  }
}
```

```text
Usage: backstage-cli create [options]

Options:
  --select <name>          Select the thing you want to be creating upfront
  --option <name>=<value>  Pre-fill options for the creation process (default: [])
  --scope <scope>          The scope to use for new packages
  --npm-registry <URL>     The package registry to use for new packages
  --no-private             Do not mark new packages as private
  -h, --help               display help for command
```

## config:docs

This commands opens up the reference documentation of your apps local
configuration schema in the browser. This is useful to get an overview of what
configuration values are available to use, a description of what they do and
their format, and where they get sent.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:docs [options]

Browse the configuration reference documentation

Options:
  --package <name>  Only include the schema that applies to the given package
  -h, --help        display help for command
```

## config:print

Print the static configuration, defaulting to reading `app-config.yaml` in the
repo root, using schema collected from all local packages in the repo.

For example, to validate that a given configuration value is visible in the
frontend when building the `my-app` package, you can use the following:

```bash
yarn backstage-cli config:print --frontend --package my-app
```

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:print [options]

Options:
  --package <name>   Only load config schema that applies to the given package
  --lax              Do not require environment variables to be set
  --frontend         Print only the frontend configuration
  --with-secrets     Include secrets in the printed configuration
  --format <format>  Format to print the configuration in, either json or yaml [yaml]
  --config <path>    Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  -h, --help         display help for command
```

## config:check

Validate that static configuration loads and matches schema, defaulting to
reading `app-config.yaml` in the repo root and using schema collected from all
local packages in the repo.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:check [options]

Options:
  --package <name>  Only load config schema that applies to the given package
  --lax             Do not require environment variables to be set
  --frontend        Only validate the frontend configuration
  --deprecated      Output deprecated configuration settings
  --strict          Ensure that the provided config(s) has no errors and does not contain keys not in the schema.
  --config <path>   Config files to load instead of app-config.yaml (default: [])
  -h, --help        display help for command
```

## config:schema

Dump the configuration schema that was collected from all local packages in the
repo.

Note: when run by `yarn`, supply the yarn option `--silent` if you are using the
output in a command line pipe to avoid non schema output in the pipeline.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli config:schema [options]

Print configuration schema

Options:
  --package <name>   Only output config schema that applies to the given package
  --format <format>  Format to print the schema in, either json or yaml [yaml]
  -h, --help         display help for command
```

## versions:bump

Bump all `@backstage` packages to the latest versions. This checks for updates
in the package registry, and will update entries both in `yarn.lock` and
`package.json` files when necessary.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli versions:bump [options]

Options:
  -h, --help        display help for command
  --pattern <glob>  Override glob for matching packages to upgrade
  --release <version|next|main> Bump to a specific Backstage release line or version (default: "main")
```

## versions:check

Validate `@backstage` dependencies within the repo, making sure that there are
no duplicates of packages that might lead to breakages.

By supplying the `--fix` flag the command will attempt to fix any conflict that
can be resolved by editing `yarn.lock`, but will not attempt to search for
remote updates or modify any `package.json` files.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli versions:check [options]

Options:
  --fix       Fix any auto-fixable versioning problems
  -h, --help  display help for command
```

## build-workspace

Builds a mirror of the workspace using the packaged production version of each
package. This essentially calls `yarn pack` in each included package and unpacks
the resulting archive in the target `workspace-dir`.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli build-workspace [options] <workspace-dir>
```

## create-github-app

Creates a GitHub App in your GitHub organization. This is an alternative to
token-based [GitHub integration](../integrations/github/locations.md). See
[GitHub Apps for Backstage Authentication](../integrations/github/github-apps.md).

Launches a browser to create the App through GitHub and saves the result as a
YAML file that can be referenced in the GitHub integration configuration.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli create-github-app <github-org>
```

## info

Outputs debug information which is useful when opening an issue. Outputs system
information, node.js and npm versions, CLI version and type (inside backstage
repo or a created app), all `@backstage/*` package dependency versions.

```text
Usage: backstage-cli info
```
